============================================================
SOURCE: 40 CFR Part 82 Subpart F — Refrigerant Recycling and Emissions Reduction
URL: https://www.ecfr.gov/api/versioner/v1/full/2026-04-07/title-40.xml?part=82&subpart=F
FETCHED: 2026-04-09T05:52:53.127Z
============================================================

### Subpart F—Recycling and Emissions Reduction

Source:58 FR 28712, May 14, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

### § 82.150 Purpose and scope.

(a) The purpose of this subpart is to reduce emissions of class I and class II refrigerants and their non-exempt substitutes to the lowest achievable level by maximizing the recapture and recycling of such refrigerants during the maintenance, service, repair, and disposal of appliances and restricting the sale of refrigerants consisting in whole or in part of a class I or class II ozone-depleting substance or their non-exempt substitutes in accordance with Title VI of the Clean Air Act.

(b) This subpart applies to any person maintaining, servicing, or repairing appliances containing class I, class II or non-exempt substitute refrigerants. This subpart also applies to persons disposing of such appliances (including small appliances and motor vehicle air conditioners), refrigerant reclaimers, technician certifying programs, appliance owners and operators, manufacturers of appliances, manufacturers of recovery and/or recycling equipment, approved recovery and/or recycling equipment testing organizations, and persons buying, selling, or offering to sell class I, class II, or non-exempt substitute refrigerants.
[81 FR 82349, Nov. 11, 2016]

### § 82.152 Definitions.

Appliance means any device which contains and uses a class I or class II substance or substitute as a refrigerant and which is used for household or commercial purposes, including any air conditioner, motor vehicle air conditioner, refrigerator, chiller, or freezer. For a system with multiple circuits, each independent circuit is considered a separate appliance.

Apprentice means any person who is currently registered as an apprentice in maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances with the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship (or a State Apprenticeship Council recognized by the Office of Apprenticeship). A person may only be an apprentice for two years from the date of first registering with that office.

Approved equipment testing organization means any organization which has applied for and received approval from the Administrator pursuant to § 82.160.

Batch means a single bulk cylinder of refrigerant after all reclamation has been completed prior to packaging or shipping to the market.

Class I refers to an ozone-depleting substance that is listed in 40 CFR part 82 subpart A, appendix A.

Class II refers to an ozone-depleting substance that is listed in 40 CFR part 82 subpart A, appendix B.

Certified refrigerant recovery or recycling equipment means equipment manufactured before November 15, 1993, that meets the standards in § 82.158(c), (e), or (g); equipment certified by an approved equipment testing organization to meet the standards in § 82.158(b), (d), or (f); or equipment certified pursuant to § 82.36(a).

Comfort cooling means the air-conditioning appliances used to provide cooling in order to control heat and/or humidity in occupied facilities including but not limited to residential, office, and commercial buildings. Comfort cooling appliances include but are not limited to chillers, commercial split systems, and packaged roof-top units.

Commercial refrigeration means the refrigeration appliances used in the retail food and cold storage warehouse sectors. Retail food appliances include the refrigeration equipment found in supermarkets, convenience stores, restaurants and other food service establishments. Cold storage includes the refrigeration equipment used to store meat, produce, dairy products, and other perishable goods.

Component means a part of the refrigerant circuit within an appliance including, but not limited to, compressors, condensers, evaporators, receivers, and all of its connections and subassemblies.

Custom-built means that the industrial process equipment or any of its components cannot be purchased and/or installed without being uniquely designed, fabricated and/or assembled to satisfy a specific set of industrial process conditions.

Disposal means the process leading to and including:

(1) The discharge, deposit, dumping or placing of any discarded appliance into or on any land or water;

(2) The disassembly of any appliance for discharge, deposit, dumping or placing of its discarded component parts into or on any land or water;

(3) The vandalism of any appliance such that the refrigerant is released into the environment or would be released into the environment if it had not been recovered prior to the destructive activity;

(4) The disassembly of any appliance for reuse of its component parts; or

(5) The recycling of any appliance for scrap.

Follow-up verification test means those tests that involve checking the repairs to an appliance after a successful initial verification test and after the appliance has returned to normal operating characteristics and conditions to verify that the repairs were successful. Potential methods for follow-up verification tests include, but are not limited to, the use of soap bubbles as appropriate, electronic or ultrasonic leak detectors, pressure or vacuum tests, fluorescent dye and black light, infrared or near infrared tests, and handheld gas detection devices.

Full charge means the amount of refrigerant required for normal operating characteristics and conditions of the appliance as determined by using one or a combination of the following four methods:

(1) Use of the equipment manufacturer's determination of the full charge;

(2) Use of appropriate calculations based on component sizes, density of refrigerant, volume of piping, and other relevant considerations;

(3) Use of actual measurements of the amount of refrigerant added to or evacuated from the appliance, including for seasonal variances; and/or

(4) Use of an established range based on the best available data regarding the normal operating characteristics and conditions for the appliance, where the midpoint of the range will serve as the full charge.

High-pressure appliance means an appliance that uses a refrigerant with a liquid phase saturation pressure between 170 psia and 355 psia at 104 &#xB0;F. Examples include but are not limited to appliances using R-22, R-407A, R-407C, R-410A, and R-502.

Industrial process refrigeration means complex customized appliances that are directly linked to the processes used in, for example, the chemical, pharmaceutical, petrochemical, and manufacturing industries. This sector also includes industrial ice machines, appliances used directly in the generation of electricity, and ice rinks. Where one appliance is used for both industrial process refrigeration and other applications, it will be considered industrial process refrigeration equipment if 50 percent or more of its operating capacity is used for industrial process refrigeration.

Industrial process shutdown means when an industrial process or facility temporarily ceases to operate or manufacture whatever is being produced at that facility.

Initial verification test means those leak tests that are conducted after the repair is finished to verify that a leak or leaks have been repaired before refrigerant is added back to the appliance.

Leak inspection means the examination of an appliance to determine the location of refrigerant leaks. Potential methods include, but are not limited to, ultrasonic tests, gas-imaging cameras, bubble tests as appropriate, or the use of a leak detection device operated and maintained according to manufacturer guidelines. Methods that determine whether the appliance is leaking refrigerant but not the location of a leak, such as standing pressure/vacuum decay tests, sight glass checks, viewing receiver levels, pressure checks, and charging charts, must be used in conjunction with methods that can determine the location of a leak.

Leak rate means the rate at which an appliance is losing refrigerant, measured between refrigerant charges. The leak rate is expressed in terms of the percentage of the appliance's full charge that would be lost over a 12-month period if the current rate of loss were to continue over that period. The rate must be calculated using one of the following methods. The same method must be used for all appliances subject to the leak repair requirements located at an operating facility.

(1) Annualizing Method—(i) Step 1. Take the number of pounds of refrigerant added to the appliance to return it to a full charge, whether in one addition or if multiple additions related to same leak, and divide it by the number of pounds of refrigerant the appliance normally contains at full charge;

(ii) Step 2. Take the shorter of the number of days that have passed since the last day refrigerant was added or 365 days and divide that number by 365 days;

(iii) Step 3. Take the number calculated in Step 1 and divide it by the number calculated in Step 2; and

(iv) Step 4. Multiply the number calculated in Step 3 by 100 to calculate a percentage. This method is summarized in the following formula:

(2) Rolling Average Method—(i) Step 1. Take the sum of the pounds of refrigerant added to the appliance over the previous 365-day period (or over the period that has passed since the last successful follow-up verification test showing all identified leaks in the appliance were repaired, if that period is less than one year);

(ii) Step 2. Divide the result of Step 1 by the pounds of refrigerant the appliance normally contains at full charge; and

(iii) Step 3. Multiply the result of Step 2 by 100 to obtain a percentage. This method is summarized in the following formula:

Low-loss fitting means any device that is intended to establish a connection between hoses, appliances, or recovery and/or recycling machines and that is designed to close automatically or to be closed manually when disconnected, minimizing the release of refrigerant from hoses, appliances, and recovery and/or recycling machines.

Low-pressure appliance means an appliance that uses a refrigerant with a liquid phase saturation pressure below 45 psia at 104 &#xB0;F. Examples include but are not limited to appliances using R-11, R-123, R-113, and R-245fa.

Major maintenance, service, or repair means any maintenance, service, or repair that involves the removal of any or all of the following appliance components: compressor, condenser, evaporator, or auxiliary heat exchange coil; or any maintenance, service, or repair that involves uncovering an opening of more than four (4) square inches of &#x201C;flow area&#x201D; for more than 15 minutes.

Medium-pressure appliance means an appliance that uses a refrigerant with a liquid phase saturation pressure between 45 psia and 170 psia at 104 &#xB0;F. Examples include but are not limited to appliances using R-114, R-124, R-12, R-134a, and R-500.

Mothball means to evacuate refrigerant from an appliance, or the affected isolated section or component of an appliance, to at least atmospheric pressure, and to temporarily shut down that appliance.

Motor vehicle air conditioner (MVAC) means any appliance that is a motor vehicle air conditioner as defined in 40 CFR part 82, subpart B.

MVAC-like appliance means a mechanical vapor compression, open-drive compressor appliance with a full charge of 20 pounds or less of refrigerant used to cool the driver's or passenger's compartment of off-road vehicles or equipment. This includes, but is not limited to, the air-conditioning equipment found on agricultural or construction vehicles. This definition is not intended to cover appliances using R-22 refrigerant.

Normal operating characteristics and conditions means appliance operating temperatures, pressures, fluid flows, speeds, and other characteristics, including full charge of the appliance, that would be expected for a given process load and ambient condition during normal operation. Normal operating characteristics and conditions are marked by the absence of atypical conditions affecting the operation of the appliance.

One-time expansion device means an appliance that relies on the release of its refrigerant charge to the environment in order to provide a cooling effect. These are typically single releases but could also include products that are designed to release refrigerant to the environment through multiple individual charges.

Opening an appliance means any maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of an appliance that would release any refrigerant in the appliance to the atmosphere. Connecting and disconnecting hoses and gauges to measure pressures, add refrigerant, or recover refrigerant from the appliance are not considered &#x201C;opening an appliance.&#x201D;

Parent company means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint-stock company, or an unincorporated organization that can direct or cause the direction of management and policies of another entity, through the ownership of shares or otherwise.

Person means any individual or legal entity, including an individual, corporation, partnership, association, state, municipality, political subdivision of a state, Indian tribe, and any agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States, and any officer, agent, or employee thereof.

Process stub means a length of tubing that provides access to the refrigerant inside a small appliance or room air conditioner and that can be resealed at the conclusion of repair or service.

Reclaim means to reprocess recovered refrigerant to all of the specifications in appendix A of this subpart (based on AHRI Standard 700-2016, Specifications for Refrigerants) that are applicable to that refrigerant and to verify that the refrigerant meets these specifications using the analytical methodology prescribed in section 5 of appendix A of this subpart.

Recover means to remove refrigerant in any condition from an appliance and to store it in an external container without necessarily testing or processing it in any way.

Recovery efficiency means the percentage of refrigerant in an appliance that is recovered by a piece of recovery and/or recycling equipment.

Recycle, when referring to refrigerant, means to extract refrigerant from an appliance (except MVACs) and clean it for reuse in equipment of the same owner without meeting all of the requirements for reclamation. In general, recycled refrigerant is cleaned using oil separation and single or multiple passes through devices, such as replaceable core filter-driers, which reduce moisture, acidity, and particulate matter.

Refrigerant means, for purposes of this subpart, any substance, including blends and mixtures, consisting in part or whole of a class I or class II ozone-depleting substance or substitute that is used for heat transfer purposes and provides a cooling effect.

Refrigerant circuit means the parts of an appliance that are normally connected to each other (or are separated only by internal valves) and are designed to contain refrigerant.

Retire, when referring to an appliance, means the removal of the refrigerant and the disassembly or impairment of the refrigerant circuit such that the appliance as a whole is rendered unusable by any person in the future.

Retrofit means to convert an appliance from one refrigerant to another refrigerant. Retrofitting includes the conversion of the appliance to achieve system compatibility with the new refrigerant and may include, but is not limited to, changes in lubricants, gaskets, filters, driers, valves, o-rings or appliance components.

Seasonal variance means the removal of refrigerant from an appliance due to a change in ambient conditions caused by a change in season, followed by the subsequent addition of an amount that is less than or equal to the amount of refrigerant removed in the prior change in season, where both the removal and addition of refrigerant occurs within one consecutive 12-month period.

Self-contained recovery equipment means refrigerant recovery and/or recycling equipment that is capable of removing the refrigerant from an appliance without the assistance of components contained in the appliance.

Self-sealing valve means a valve affixed to a container of refrigerant that automatically seals when not dispensing refrigerant and meets or exceeds established performance criteria as identified in § 82.154(c)(2).

Small appliance means any appliance that is fully manufactured, charged, and hermetically sealed in a factory with five (5) pounds or less of refrigerant, including, but not limited to, refrigerators and freezers (designed for home, commercial, or consumer use), medical or industrial research refrigeration equipment, room air conditioners (including window air conditioners, portable air conditioners, and packaged terminal air heat pumps), dehumidifiers, under-the-counter ice makers, vending machines, and drinking water coolers.

Substitute means any chemical or product, whether existing or new, that is used as a refrigerant to replace a class I or II ozone-depleting substance. Examples include, but are not limited to hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, hydrofluoroolefins, hydrofluoroethers, hydrocarbons, ammonia, carbon dioxide, and blends thereof. As used in this subpart, the term &#x201C;exempt substitutes&#x201D; refers to certain substitutes when used in certain end-uses that are specified in § 82.154(a)(1) as exempt from the venting prohibition and the requirements of this subpart, and the term &#x201C;non-exempt substitutes&#x201D; refers to all other substitutes and end-uses not so specified in § 82.154(a)(1).

System-dependent recovery equipment means refrigerant recovery equipment that requires the assistance of components contained in an appliance to remove the refrigerant from the appliance.

System receiver means the isolated portion of the appliance, or a specific vessel within the appliance, that is used to hold the refrigerant charge during the servicing or repair of that appliance.

Technician means any person who in the course of maintenance, service, or repair of an appliance (except MVACs) could be reasonably expected to violate the integrity of the refrigerant circuit and therefore release refrigerants into the environment. Technician also means any person who in the course of disposal of an appliance (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) could be reasonably expected to violate the integrity of the refrigerant circuit and therefore release refrigerants from the appliances into the environment. Activities reasonably expected to violate the integrity of the refrigerant circuit include but are not limited to: Attaching or detaching hoses and gauges to and from the appliance; adding or removing refrigerant; adding or removing components; and cutting the refrigerant line. Activities such as painting the appliance, rewiring an external electrical circuit, replacing insulation on a length of pipe, or tightening nuts and bolts are not reasonably expected to violate the integrity of the refrigerant circuit. Activities conducted on appliances that have been properly evacuated pursuant to § 82.156 are not reasonably expected to release refrigerants unless the activity includes adding refrigerant to the appliance. Technicians could include but are not limited to installers, contractor employees, in-house service personnel, and owners and/or operators of appliances.

Very high-pressure appliance means an appliance that uses a refrigerant with a critical temperature below 104 &#xB0;F or with a liquid phase saturation pressure above 355 psia at 104 &#xB0;F. Examples include but are not limited to appliances using R-13, R-23, R-503, R-508A, and R-508B.
[58 FR 28712, May 14, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 42956, Aug. 19, 1994; 59 FR 55925, Nov. 9, 1994; 60 FR 40439, Aug. 8, 1995; 68 FR 43806, July 24, 2003; 69 FR 11978, Mar. 12, 2004; 70 FR 1991, Jan. 11, 2005; 70 FR 19278, Apr. 13, 2005; 81 FR 82349, Nov. 18, 2016]

### § 82.154 Prohibitions.

(a) Venting prohibition. (1) No person maintaining, servicing, repairing, or disposing of an appliance or industrial process refrigeration may knowingly vent or otherwise release into the environment any refrigerant from such appliances. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, the following substitutes in the following end-uses are exempt from this prohibition and from the requirements of this subpart:

(i) Carbon dioxide in any application;

(ii) Nitrogen in any application;

(iii) Water in any application;

(iv) Ammonia in commercial or industrial process refrigeration or in absorption units;

(v) Chlorine in industrial process refrigeration (processing of chlorine and chlorine compounds);

(vi) Hydrocarbons in industrial process refrigeration (processing of hydrocarbons);

(vii) Ethane (R-170) in very low temperature refrigeration equipment and equipment for non-mechanical heat transfer;

(viii) Propane (R-290) in retail food refrigerators and freezers—stand-alone units; household refrigerators, freezers, and combination refrigerators and freezers; self-contained room air conditioners for residential and light commercial air-conditioning and heat pumps; vending machines; self-contained commercial ice machines, very low temperature refrigeration equipment, and water coolers; and effective July 15, 2024, retail food refrigeration—refrigerated food processing and dispensing equipment;

(ix) Isobutane (R-600a) in retail food refrigerators and freezers (stand-alone units only); household refrigerators, freezers, and combination refrigerators and freezers; and vending machines;

(x) R-441A in retail food refrigerators and freezers (stand-alone units only); household refrigerators, freezers, and combination refrigerators and freezers; self-contained room air conditioners for residential and light commercial air-conditioning; heat pumps; and vending machines.

(2) De minimis releases associated with good faith attempts to recycle or recover refrigerants are not subject to this prohibition. Except for exempt substitutes, refrigerant releases are de minimis only if they occur when:

(i) The applicable practices in §§ 82.155 and 82.156 are observed, the applicable practices in § 82.157 are observed for appliances that contain any class I or class II refrigerant or blend containing a class I or class II refrigerant, recovery and/or recycling machines that meet the requirements in § 82.158 are used whenever refrigerant is removed from an appliance, the technician certification provisions in § 82.161 are observed, and the reclamation requirements in § 82.164 are observed; or

(ii) The requirements in subpart B of this part are observed.

(3) The knowing release of a class I or class II refrigerant or a non-exempt substitute refrigerant after its recovery from an appliance is a violation of the venting prohibition.

(b) No person may maintain, service, repair, or dispose of an appliance containing a class I or class II refrigerant or a non-exempt substitute refrigerant without:

(1) Observing the applicable practices in §§ 82.155, 82.156, and 82.157; and

(2) Using recovery and/or recycling equipment that is certified for that type of refrigerant and appliance under § 82.158.

(c) Sales restriction. (1) No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, any substance that consists in whole or in part of a class I or class II substance or, starting on January 1, 2018, any non-exempt substitute for use as a refrigerant unless:

(i) The buyer has been certified as a Type I, Type II, Type III, or Universal technician under § 82.161;

(ii) The buyer employs at least one technician who is certified as a Type I, Type II, Type III, or Universal technician under § 82.161 and provides proof of such to the seller;

(iii) The buyer has been certified in accordance with 40 CFR part 82, subpart B and the refrigerant is acceptable for use in MVACs under 40 CFR part 82, subpart G;

(iv) The buyer employs at least one person who is certified under 40 CFR part 82, subpart B, and provides proof of such to the seller and the refrigerant is acceptable for use in MVACs under 40 CFR part 82, subpart G. Nothing in this provision relieves persons of the requirements of § 82.34(b) or § 82.42(b);

(v) The refrigerant is sold only for eventual resale to persons certified under § 82.161 or 40 CFR part 82, subpart B or to appliance manufacturers (e.g., sold by a manufacturer to a wholesaler, sold by a technician to a reclaimer);

(vi) The refrigerant is sold to an appliance manufacturer;

(vii) The refrigerant is contained in an appliance with a fully assembled refrigerant circuit or an appliance component;

(viii) The refrigerant is charged into an appliance by a certified technician or an apprentice during maintenance, service, or repair of the appliance; or

(ix) The non-exempt substitute refrigerant is intended for use in an MVAC and is sold in a container designed to hold two pounds or less of refrigerant, has a unique fitting, and, if manufactured or imported on or after January 1, 2018, has a self-sealing valve that complies with the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) Self-sealing valve specifications. This provision applies starting January 1, 2018, for all containers holding two pounds or less of non-exempt substitute refrigerant for use in an MVAC that are manufactured or imported on or after that date.

(i) Each container holding two pounds or less of non-exempt substitute refrigerant for use in an MVAC must be equipped with a single self-sealing valve that automatically closes and seals when not dispensing refrigerant.

(ii) The leakage rate from each container must not exceed 3.00 grams per year when the self-sealing valve is closed. This leakage rate applies to new, full containers as well as containers that may be partially full.

(iii) The leakage rate must be determined using the standards described in appendix E (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

(iv) All testing to demonstrate compliance with this paragraph must be conducted by an independent test laboratory in the United States. For purposes of this requirement, an independent test laboratory is one that is not owned, operated, or affiliated with the applicant certifying equipment and/or products.

(3) Recordkeeping. (i) Persons who sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, any class I or class II refrigerant, or, starting on January 1, 2018, any non-exempt substitute refrigerant must keep invoices that indicate the name of the purchaser, the date of sale, and the quantity of refrigerant purchased unless they are selling exempt substitutes (those substitutes used in the end-uses specified as exempt in paragraph (a)(1) of this section) or small cans of MVAC refrigerant in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(ix) of this section. In instances where the buyer employs a person certified under § 82.161 or 40 CFR part 82, subpart B, the seller must keep the documentation provided by the buyer to demonstrate such employment. All records must be kept for three years.

(ii) Electronic or paper copies of all records described in appendix E must be maintained by manufacturers of containers holding two pounds or less of non-exempt substitute refrigerant for use in an MVAC to verify self-sealing valves meet the requirements specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. All records must be kept for three years after each purchase.

(d) Sale of used refrigerant. No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, for use as a refrigerant any class I or class II substance or non-exempt substitute consisting wholly or in part of used refrigerant unless the refrigerant:

(1) Has been reclaimed by a person who has been certified as a reclaimer under § 82.164;

(2) was used only in an MVAC or MVAC-like appliance and is to be used only in an MVAC or MVAC-like appliance and recycled in accordance with 40 CFR part 82, subpart B;

(3) is contained in an appliance that is sold or offered for sale together with a fully assembled refrigerant circuit;

(4) is being transferred between or among a parent company and one or more of its subsidiaries, or between or among subsidiaries having the same parent company; or

(5) is being transferred between or among a Federal agency or department and a facility or facilities owned by the same Federal agency or department.

(e) Manufacture and sale of appliances. (1) No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, any appliance (except small appliances and appliances containing only refrigerants that have been exempted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section) unless it is equipped with a servicing aperture to facilitate the removal of refrigerant at servicing and disposal.

(2) No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, any small appliance (except appliances containing only refrigerants that have been exempted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section) unless it is equipped with a process stub to facilitate the removal of refrigerant at servicing and disposal.

(f) One-time expansion devices. No person may manufacture or import a one-time expansion device unless the only refrigerants it contains have been exempted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(g) Rules stayed for consideration. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subpart, the effectiveness of 40 CFR 82.154(c), only as it applies to refrigerant contained in appliances without fully assembled refrigerant circuits, is stayed from April 27, 1995, until EPA takes final action on its reconsideration of these provisions. EPA will publish any such final action in the Federal Register.
[81 FR 82352, Nov. 18, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 86881, Dec. 1, 2016; 82 FR 61184, Dec. 27, 2017; 85 FR 14171, Apr. 10, 2020; 89 FR 50463, June 13, 2024]

### § 82.155 Safe disposal of appliances.

Until January 1, 2018, this section applies only to disposal of appliances containing class I and class II refrigerants. Starting on January 1, 2018, this section applies to disposal of appliances containing any class I or class II refrigerant or any non-exempt substitute refrigerant.

(a) Persons recovering refrigerant from a small appliance, MVAC, or MVAC-like appliance for purposes of disposal of these appliances must evacuate refrigerant to the levels in § 82.156(b) through (d) using recovery equipment that meets the standards in § 82.158(e) through (g), or 40 CFR part 82 subpart B, as applicable.

(b) The final processor—i.e., persons who take the final step in the disposal process (including but not limited to scrap recyclers and landfill operators) of a small appliance, MVAC, or MVAC-like appliance—must either:

(1) Recover any remaining refrigerant from the appliance in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section; or

(2) Verify using a signed statement or a contract that all refrigerant that had not leaked previously has been recovered from the appliance or shipment of appliances in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. If using a signed statement, it must include the name and address of the person who recovered the refrigerant and the date the refrigerant was recovered. If using a signed contract between the supplier and the final processor, it must either state that the supplier will recover any remaining refrigerant from the appliance or shipment of appliances in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section prior to delivery or verify that the refrigerant had been properly recovered prior to receipt by the supplier.

(i) It is a violation of this subpart to accept a signed statement or contract if the person receiving the statement or contract knew or had reason to know that the signed statement or contract is false.

(ii) The final processor must notify suppliers of appliances that refrigerant must be properly recovered in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section before delivery of the items to the facility. The form of this notification may be signs, letters to suppliers, or other equivalent means.

(iii) If all the refrigerant has leaked out of the appliance, the final processor must obtain a signed statement that all the refrigerant in the appliance had leaked out prior to delivery to the final processor and recovery is not possible. &#x201C;Leaked out&#x201D; in this context means those situations in which the refrigerant has escaped because of system failures, accidents, or other unavoidable occurrences not caused by a person's negligence or deliberate acts such as cutting refrigerant lines.

(c) Recordkeeping. The final processor of a small appliance, MVAC, or MVAC-like appliance must keep a copy of all the signed statements or contracts obtained under paragraph (b)(2) of this section on site, in hard copy or in electronic format, for three years.
[81 FR 82353, Nov. 18, 2016]

### § 82.156 Proper evacuation of refrigerant from appliances.

Until January 1, 2018, this section applies only to evacuation of refrigerant from appliances containing class I or class II refrigerants. Starting on January 1, 2018, this section applies to evacuation of refrigerant from appliances containing any class I or class II refrigerant or any non-exempt substitute refrigerant, excluding paragraph (i) of this section which applies only to appliances containing class I or class II refrigerants until January 1, 2019. Starting January 1, 2019, the provisions in § 82.157 apply in lieu of paragraph (i) of this section.

(a) Appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances). Before opening appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) or disposing of such appliances, technicians must evacuate the refrigerant, including all the liquid refrigerant, to the levels in Table 1 using a recovery and/or recycling machine certified pursuant to § 82.158 unless the situations in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section apply. Technicians may evacuate either the entire appliance or the part to be serviced, if the refrigerant in the part can be isolated to a system receiver. A technician must verify that the applicable level of evacuation has been reached in the appliance or the part before it is opened.

(1) If evacuation of the appliance to the atmosphere is not to be performed after completion of the maintenance, service, or repair, and if the maintenance, service, or repair is not major as defined at § 82.152, the appliance must:

(i) Be evacuated to a pressure no higher than 0 psig before it is opened if it is a medium-, high- or very high-pressure appliance;

(ii) Be pressurized to a pressure no higher than 0 psig before it is opened if it is a low-pressure appliance. Persons must cover openings when isolation is not possible. Persons pressurizing low-pressure appliances that use refrigerants with boiling points at or below 85 degrees Fahrenheit at 29.9 inches of mercury (standard atmospheric pressure), must not use methods such as nitrogen that require subsequent purging. Persons pressurizing low-pressure appliances that use refrigerants with boiling points above 85 degrees Fahrenheit at 29.9 inches of mercury, must use heat to raise the internal pressure of the appliance as much as possible, but may use nitrogen to raise the internal pressure of the appliance from the level attainable through use of heat to atmospheric pressure; or

(iii) For the purposes of oil changes, be evacuated or pressurized to a pressure no higher than 5 psig, before it is opened; or drain the oil into a system receiver to be evacuated or pressurized to a pressure no higher than 5 psig.

(2) If leaks in the appliance make evacuation to the levels in Table 1 unattainable or would substantially contaminate the refrigerant being recovered, persons opening or disposing of the appliance must:

(i) Isolate leaking from non-leaking components wherever possible;

(ii) Evacuate non-leaking components to be opened or disposed of to the levels specified in Table 1; and

(iii) Evacuate leaking components to be opened or disposed of to the lowest level that can be attained without substantially contaminating the refrigerant. This level may not exceed 0 psig.

(3) Recordkeeping. As of January 1, 2018, technicians evacuating refrigerant from appliances with a full charge of more than 5 and less than 50 pounds of refrigerant for purposes of disposal of that appliance must keep records documenting the following for three years:

(i) The company name, location of the appliance, date of recovery, and type of refrigerant recovered for each appliance;

(ii) The total quantity of refrigerant, by type, recovered from all disposed appliances in each calendar month; and

(iii) The quantity of refrigerant, by type, transferred for reclamation and/or destruction, the person to whom it was transferred, and the date of transfer.

Table 1—Required Levels of Evacuation for Appliances[Except for small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances]

Type of appliance
Inches of Hg vacuum(relative to standard atmospheric pressure of 29.9 inches Hg)

Using recovery and/or recycling equipment manufactured orimported beforeNovember 15, 1993
Using recovery and/or recycling equipment manufactured orimported on or afterNovember 15, 1993

Very high-pressure appliance
0
0.

High-pressure appliance, or isolated component of such appliance, with a full charge of less than 200 pounds of refrigerant
0
0.

High-pressure appliance, or isolated component of such appliance, with a full charge of 200 pounds or more of refrigerant
4
10.

Medium-pressure appliance, or isolated component of such appliance, with a full charge of less than 200 pounds of refrigerant
4
10.

Medium-pressure appliance, or isolated component of such appliance, with a full charge of 200 pounds or more of refrigerant
4
15.

Low-pressure appliance
25 mm Hg absolute
25 mm Hg absolute.

(b) Small appliances. Before opening a small appliance or when disposing of a small appliance, persons must recover refrigerant, using a recovery and/or recycling machine certified pursuant to § 82.158, according to the following conditions:

(1) When using recovery equipment manufactured before November 15, 1993, recover 80 percent of the refrigerant in the small appliance; or

(2) When using recovery equipment manufactured on or after November 15, 1993, recover 90 percent of the refrigerant in the appliance when the compressor in the appliance is functioning, or 80 percent of the refrigerant in the appliance when the compressor in the appliance is not functioning; or

(3) Evacuate the appliance to four inches of mercury vacuum.

(c) MVAC-like appliances. Persons may only open MVAC-like appliances while properly using, as defined at § 82.32(e), recovery and/or recycling equipment certified pursuant to § 82.158(f) or § 82.36, as applicable. All persons recovering refrigerant from MVAC-like appliances for purposes of disposal of these appliances must evacuate the appliance in accordance with 40 CFR part 82, subpart B or reduce the system pressure to or below 102 mm of mercury vacuum.

(d) MVACs. All persons recovering refrigerant from MVACs for purposes of disposal of these appliances must evacuate the appliance in accordance with 40 CFR part 82, subpart B or reduce the system pressure to or below 102 mm of mercury vacuum.

(e) System-dependent equipment may not be used with appliances with a full charge of more than 15 pounds of refrigerant, unless the system-dependent equipment is permanently attached to the appliance as a pump-out unit.

(f) Persons who maintain, service, repair, or dispose of only appliances that they own and that contain pump-out units are exempt from the requirement to use certified, self-contained recovery and/or recycling equipment.

(g) All recovery and/or recycling equipment must be used in accordance with the manufacturer's directions unless such directions conflict with the requirements of this subpart.

(h) Refrigerant may be returned to the appliance from which it is recovered or to another appliance owned by the same person without being recycled or reclaimed, unless the appliance is an MVAC or MVAC-like appliance.

(i) The provisions in this paragraph (i) apply to owners and operators of appliances containing 50 or more pounds of class I and class II refrigerants only until January 1, 2019. The definitions in paragraph (j) of this section apply for purposes of this paragraph (i) in lieu of the definitions in § 82.152.

(1) Owners or operators of commercial refrigeration equipment normally containing more than 50 pounds of refrigerant must have leaks repaired in accordance with paragraph (i)(9) of this section, if the appliance is leaking at a rate such that the loss of refrigerant will exceed 35 percent of the total charge during a 12-month period, except as described in paragraphs (i)(6), (i)(8), and (i)(10) of this section and paragraphs (i)(1)(i), (i)(1)(ii), and (i)(1)(iii) of this section. Repairs must bring the annual leak rate to below 35 percent.

(i) If the owners or operators of the federally-owned commercial refrigerant appliances determine that the leaks cannot be repaired in accordance with paragraph (i)(9) of this section and that an extension in accordance with the requirements discussed in this paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section apply, they must document all repair efforts, and notify EPA of their inability to comply within the 30-day repair requirement, and the reason for the inability must be submitted to EPA in accordance with § 82.166(n). Such notification must be made within 30 days of discovering the leaks. EPA will determine if the extension requested in accordance with the requirements discussed in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section is justified. If the extension is not justified, EPA will notify the owner/operator within 30 days of receipt of the notification.

(ii) Owners or operators of federally-owned commercial refrigeration equipment may have more than 30 days to repair leaks if the refrigeration appliance is located in an area subject to radiological contamination or where the shutting down of the appliance will directly lead to radiological contamination. Only the additional time needed to conduct and complete repairs in a safe working environment will be permitted.

(iii) Owners or operators of federally-owned commercial refrigeration equipment requesting or who are granted time extensions under this paragraph must comply with paragraphs (i)(3) and (i)(4) of this section.

(2) The owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment normally containing more than 50 pounds of refrigerant must have leaks repaired if the appliance is leaking at a rate such that the loss of refrigerant will exceed 35 percent of the total charge during a 12-month period in accordance with paragraph (i)(9) of this section, except as described in paragraphs (i)(6), (i)(7) and (i)(10) of this section, and paragraphs (i)(2)(i) and (i)(2)(ii) of this section. Repairs must bring annual leak rates to below 35 percent during a 12-month period. If the owners or operators of the industrial process refrigeration equipment determine that the leak rate cannot be brought to below 35 percent during a 12-month period within 30 days (or 120 days, where an industrial process shutdown in accordance with paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section is required,) and in accordance with paragraph (i)(9) of this section, and that an extension in accordance with the requirements discussed in this paragraph apply, the owners or operators of the appliance must document all repair efforts, and notify EPA of the reason for the inability in accordance with § 82.166(n) within 30 days of making this determination. Owners or operators who obtain an extension pursuant to this section or elect to utilize the additional time provided in paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section, must conduct all necessary leak repairs, if any, that do not require any additional time beyond the initial 30 or 120 days.

(i) The owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment are permitted more than 30 days (or 120 days where an industrial process shutdown in accordance with paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section is required) to repair leaks, if the necessary parts are unavailable or if requirements of other applicable federal, state, or local regulations make a repair within 30 or 120 days impossible. Only the additional time needed to receive delivery of the necessary parts or to comply with the pertinent regulations will be permitted.

(ii) Owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment will have a 120-day repair period, rather than a 30-day repair period, to repair leaks in instances where an industrial process shutdown is needed to repair a leak or leaks from industrial process refrigeration equipment.

(3) Owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment and owners or operators of federally-owned commercial refrigeration equipment or of federally-owned comfort cooling appliances who are granted additional time under paragraphs (i)(1) or (i)(5) of this section, must have repairs performed in a manner that sound professional judgment indicates will bring the leak rate below the applicable allowable leak rate. When an industrial process shutdown has occurred or when repairs have been made while an appliance is mothballed, the owners or operators shall conduct an initial verification test at the conclusion of the repairs and a follow-up verification test. The follow-up verification test shall be conducted within 30 days of completing the repairs or within 30 days of bringing the appliance back on-line, if taken off-line, but no sooner than when the appliance has achieved normal operating characteristics and conditions. When repairs have been conducted without an industrial process shutdown or system mothballing, an initial verification test shall be conducted at the conclusion of the repairs, and a follow-up verification test shall be conducted within 30 days of the initial verification test. In all cases, the follow-up verification test shall be conducted at normal operating characteristics and conditions, unless sound professional judgment indicates that tests performed at normal operating characteristics and conditions will produce less reliable results, in which case the follow-up verification test shall be conducted at or near the normal operating pressure where practicable, and at or near the normal operating temperature where practicable.

(i) If the owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment takes the appliance off-line, or if the owners or operators of federally-owned commercial refrigeration or of federally-owned comfort cooling appliances who are granted additional time under paragraphs (i)(1) or (i)(5) of this section take the appliance off-line, they cannot bring the appliance back on-line until an initial verification test indicates that the repairs undertaken in accordance with paragraphs (i)(1)(i), (ii), (iii), or (i)(2)(i) and (ii), or (5)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section have been successfully completed, demonstrating the leak or leaks are repaired. The owners or operators of the industrial process refrigeration equipment, federally-owned commercial refrigeration appliances, or federally-owned comfort cooling appliances are exempted from this requirement only where the owners or operators will retrofit or retire the industrial process refrigeration equipment, federally-owned commercial refrigeration appliance, or federally-owned comfort cooling appliance in accordance with paragraph (i)(6) of this section. Under this exemption, the owner or operators may bring the industrial process refrigeration equipment, federally-owned commercial refrigeration appliance, or federally-owned comfort cooling appliance back on-line without successful completion of an initial verification test.

(ii) If the follow-up verification test indicates that the repairs to industrial process refrigeration equipment, federally-owned commercial refrigeration equipment, or federally-owned comfort cooling appliances have not been successful, the owner or operator must retrofit or retire the equipment in accordance with paragraph (i)(6) and any such longer time period as may apply under paragraphs (i)(7)(i), (ii) and (iii) or (i)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section. The owners and operators of the industrial process refrigeration equipment, federally-owned commercial refrigeration equipment, or federally-owned comfort cooling appliances are relieved of this requirement if the conditions of paragraphs (i)(3)(iv) and/or (i)(3)(v) of this section are met.

(iii) The owner or operator of industrial process refrigeration equipment that fails a follow-up verification test must notify EPA within 30 days of the failed follow-up verification test in accordance with § 82.166(n).

(iv) The owner or operator is relieved of the obligation to retrofit or replace the industrial process refrigeration equipment as discussed in paragraph (i)(6) of this section if second repair efforts to fix the same leaks that were the subject of the first repair efforts are successfully completed within 30 days or 120 days where an industrial process shutdown is required, after the initial failed follow-up verification test. The second repair efforts are subject to the same verification requirements of paragraphs (i)(3), (i)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section. The owner or operator is required to notify EPA within 30 days of the successful follow-up verification test in accordance with § 82.166(n) and the owner or operator is no longer subject to the obligation to retrofit or replace the appliance that arose as a consequence of the initial failure to verify that the leak repair efforts were successful.

(v) The owner or operator of industrial process refrigeration equipment is relieved of the obligation to retrofit or replace the equipment in accordance with paragraph (i)(6) of this section if within 180 days of the initial failed follow-up verification test, the owner or operator establishes that the appliance's annual leak rate does not exceed the applicable allowable annual leak rate, in accordance with paragraph (i)(4) of this section. If the appliance's owner or operator establishes that the appliance's annual leak rate does not exceed the applicable allowable annual leak rate, the owner or operator is required to notify EPA within 30 days of that determination in accordance with § 82.166(n) and the owner or operator would no longer be subject to the obligation to retrofit or replace the equipment that arose as a consequence of the initial failure to verify that the leak repair efforts were successful.

(4) In the case of a failed follow-up verification test subject to paragraph (i)(3)(v) of this section, the determination of whether industrial process refrigeration equipment has an annual leak rate that exceeds the applicable allowable annual leak rate will be made in accordance with parameters identified by the owner or operator in its notice to EPA regarding the failure of the initial follow-up verification test, if those parameters are acceptable to EPA; otherwise by parameters selected by EPA. The determination must be based on the full charge for the affected industrial process refrigeration equipment. The leak rate determination parameters in the owner's or operator's notice will be considered acceptable unless EPA notifies the owners or operators within 30 days of receipt of the notice. Where EPA does not accept the parameters identified by the owner or operator in its notice, EPA will not provide additional time beyond the additional time permitted in paragraph (i)(3)(v) of this section unless specifically stated in the parameters selected by EPA.

(5) Owners or operators of comfort cooling appliances normally containing more than 50 pounds of refrigerant and not covered by paragraph (i)(1) or (i)(2) of this section must have leaks repaired in accordance with paragraph (i)(9) of this section if the appliance is leaking at a rate such that the loss of refrigerant will exceed 15 percent of the total charge during a 12-month period, except as described in paragraphs (i)(6), (i)(8) and (i)(10) of this section and paragraphs (i)(5)(i), (i)(5)(ii) and (i)(5)(iii) of this section. Repairs must bring the annual leak rate to below 15 percent.

(i) If the owners or operators of federally-owned comfort-cooling appliances determine that the leaks cannot be repaired in accordance with paragraph (i)(9) of this section and that an extension in accordance with the requirements discussed in paragraph (i)(5) of this section apply, they must document all repair efforts, and notify EPA of their inability to comply within the 30-day repair requirement, and the reason for the inability must be submitted to EPA in accordance with § 82.166(n). Such notification must be made within 30 days of discovering that leak repair efforts cannot be completed within 30 days.

(ii) Owners or operators of federally-owned comfort-cooling appliances may have more than 30 days to repair leaks where the refrigeration appliance is located in an area subject to radiological contamination or where the shutting down of the appliance will directly lead to radiological contamination. Only the additional time needed to conduct and complete work in a safe environment will be permitted.

(iii) Owners or operators of federally-owned comfort-cooling appliances requesting, or who are granted, time extensions under this paragraph must comply with paragraphs (i)(3) and (i)(4) of this section.

(6) Owners or operators are not required to repair leaks as provided in paragraphs (i)(1), (i)(2), and (i)(5) of this section if, within 30 days of discovering a leak greater than the applicable allowable leak rate, or within 30 days of a failed follow-up verification test, or after making good faith efforts to repair the leaks as described in paragraph (i)(6)(i) of this section, they develop a one-year retrofit or retirement plan for the leaking appliance. Owners or operators who decide to retrofit the appliance must use a refrigerant or substitute with a lower or equivalent ozone-depleting potential than the previous refrigerant and must include such a change in the retrofit plan. Owners or operators who retire and replace the appliance must replace the appliance with an appliance that uses a refrigerant or substitute with a lower or equivalent ozone-depleting potential and must include such a change in the retirement plan. The retrofit or retirement plan (or a legible copy) must be kept at the site of the appliance. The original plan must be made available for EPA inspection upon request. The plan must be dated, and all work performed in accordance with the plan must be completed within one year of the plan's date, except as described in paragraphs (i)(6)(i), (i)(7), and (i)(8) of this section. Owners or operators are temporarily relieved of this obligation if the appliance has undergone system mothballing as defined in § 82.152.

(i) If the owner or operator has made good faith efforts to repair leaks from the appliance in accordance with paragraphs (i)(1), (i)(2), or (i)(5) of this section and has decided prior to completing a follow-up verification test, to retrofit or retire the appliance in accordance with paragraph (i)(6) of this section, the owner or operator must develop a retrofit or retirement plan within 30 days of the decision to retrofit or retire the appliance. The owner or operator must complete the retrofit or retirement of the appliance within one year and 30 days of when the owner or operator discovered that the leak rate exceeded the applicable allowable leak rate, except as provided in paragraphs (i)(7) and (i)(8) of this section.

(ii) In all cases, subject to paragraph (i)(6)(i) of this section, the written plan shall be prepared no later than 30 days after the owner or operator has determined to proceed with retrofitting or retiring the appliance. All reports required under § 82.166(o) shall be due at the time specified in the paragraph imposing the specific reporting requirement, or no later than 30 days after the decision to retrofit or retire the appliance, whichever is later.

(iii) In cases where the owner or operator of industrial process refrigeration equipment has made good faith efforts to retrofit or retire industrial process refrigeration equipment prior to August 8, 1995, and where these efforts are not complete, the owner or operator must develop a retrofit or retirement plan that will complete the retrofit or retirement of the affected appliance by August 8, 1996. This plan (or a legible copy) must be kept at the site of the appliance. The original must be made available for EPA inspection upon request. Where the conditions of paragraphs (i)(7) and (i)(8) of this section apply, and where the length of time necessary to complete the work is beyond August 8, 1996, all records must be submitted to EPA in accordance with § 82.166(o), as well as maintained on-site.

(7) The owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment will be allowed additional time to complete the retrofit or retirement of industrial process refrigeration equipment if the conditions described in paragraphs (i)(7)(i) or (i)(7)(ii) of this section are met. The owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment will be allowed additional time beyond the additional time provided in paragraph (i)(7)(ii) of this section if the conditions described in paragraph (i)(7)(iii) of this section are met.

(i) Additional time, to the extent reasonably necessary will be allowed for retrofitting or retiring industrial process refrigeration equipment due to delays occasioned by the requirements of other applicable federal, state, or local laws or regulations, or due to the unavailability of a suitable replacement refrigerant with a lower ozone depletion potential. If these circumstances apply, the owner or operator of the facility must notify EPA within six months after the 30-day period following the discovery of an exceedance of the 35 percent leak rate. Records necessary to allow EPA to determine that these provisions apply and the length of time necessary to complete the work must be submitted to EPA in accordance with § 82.166(o), as well as maintained on-site. EPA will notify the owner or operator of its determination within 60 days of receipt the submittal.

(ii) An additional one-year period beyond the initial one-year retrofit period is allowed for industrial process refrigeration equipment where the following criteria are met:

(A) The new or the retrofitted industrial process refrigerant equipment is custom-built;

(B) The supplier of the appliance or one or more of its critical components has quoted a delivery time of more than 30 weeks from when the order is placed;

(C) The owner or operator notifies EPA within six months of the expiration of the 30-day period following the discovery of an exceedance of the 35 percent leak rate to identify the owner or operator, describe the appliance involved, explain why more than one year is needed, and demonstrate that the first two criteria are met in accordance with § 82.166(o); and

(D) The owner or operator maintains records that are adequate to allow a determination that the criteria are met.

(iii) The owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment may request additional time to complete retrofitting or retiring industrial process refrigeration equipment beyond the additional one-year period if needed and where the initial additional one year was granted in accordance with paragraph (i)(7)(ii) of this section. The request shall be submitted to EPA before the end of the ninth month of the first additional year and shall include revisions of information required under § 82.166(o). Unless EPA objects to this request submitted in accordance with § 82.166(o) within 30 days of receipt, it shall be deemed approved.

(8) Owners or operators of federally-owned commercial or comfort-cooling appliances will be allowed an additional year to complete the retrofit or retirement of the appliances if the conditions described in paragraph (i)(8)(i) of this section are met, and will be allowed one year beyond the additional year if the conditions in paragraph (i)(8)(ii) of this section are met.

(i) Up to one additional one-year period beyond the initial one-year retrofit period is allowed for such equipment where the following criteria are met:

(A) Due to complications presented by the federal agency appropriations and/or procurement process, a delivery time of more than 30 weeks from the beginning of the official procurement process is quoted, or where the appliance is located in an area subject to radiological contamination and creating a safe working environment will require more than 30 weeks;

(B) The operator notifies EPA within six months of the expiration of the 30-day period following the discovery of an exceedance of the applicable allowable annual leak rate to identify the operator, describe the appliance involved, explain why more than one year is needed, and demonstrate that the first criterion is met in accordance with § 82.166(o); and

(C) The operator maintains records adequate to allow a determination that the criteria are met.

(ii) The owners or operators of federally-owned commercial or comfort-cooling appliances may request additional time to complete retrofitting, replacement or retiring such appliances beyond the additional one-year period if needed and where the initial additional one year was granted in accordance with paragraph (i)(8)(i) of this section. The request shall be submitted to EPA before the end of the ninth month of the first additional year and shall include revisions of information earlier submitted as required under § 82.166(o). Unless EPA objects to this request submitted in accordance with § 82.166(o) within 30 days of receipt, it shall be deemed approved.

(9) Owners or operators must repair leaks pursuant to paragraphs (i)(1), (i)(2) and (i)(5) of this section within 30 days after discovery, or within 30 days after when the leaks should have been discovered if the owners intentionally shielded themselves from information which would have revealed a leak, unless granted additional time pursuant to § 82.156(i).

(10) The amount of time for owners and operators to complete repairs, retrofit plans or retrofits/replacements/ retirements under paragraphs (i)(1), (i)(2), (i)(5), (i)(6), (i)(7), (i)(8), and (i)(9) of this section is temporarily suspended at the time an appliance is mothballed as defined in § 82.152. The time for owners and operators to complete repairs, retrofit plans, or retrofits/replacements will resume on the day the appliance is brought back on-line and is no longer considered mothballed. All initial and follow-up verification tests must be performed in accordance with paragraphs (i)(3), (i)(3)(i), and (i)(3)(ii) of this section.

(11) In calculating annual leak rates, purged refrigerant that is destroyed at a verifiable destruction efficiency of 98 percent or greater will not be counted toward the leak rate. Owners or operators destroying purged refrigerants must maintain information as set forth in § 82.166(p)(1) and submit to EPA, within 60 days after the first time such exclusion is used by that facility, information set forth in § 82.166(p)(2).

(j) Definitions for the leak repair provisions in 82.156(i). These definitions are not applicable to any other portion of subpart F other than 82.156(i). Along with paragraph (i) of this section, the definitions in this section apply only until January 1, 2019.

Appliance means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, any device which contains and uses a refrigerant and which is used for household or commercial purposes, including any air conditioner, refrigerator, chiller, or freezer.

Commercial refrigeration means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, the refrigeration appliances utilized in the retail food and cold storage warehouse sectors. Retail food includes the refrigeration equipment found in supermarkets, convenience stores, restaurants and other food service establishments. Cold storage includes the equipment used to store meat, produce, dairy products, and other perishable goods. All of the equipment contains large refrigerant charges, typically over 75 pounds.

Critical component means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, a component without which industrial process refrigeration equipment will not function, will be unsafe in its intended environment, and/or will be subject to failures that would cause the industrial process served by the refrigeration appliance to be unsafe.

Custom-built means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, that the equipment or any of its critical components cannot be purchased and/or installed without being uniquely designed, fabricated and/or assembled to satisfy a specific set of industrial process conditions.

Follow-up verification test means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, those tests that involve checking the repairs within 30 days of the appliance's returning to normal operating characteristics and conditions. Follow-up verification tests for appliances from which the refrigerant charge has been evacuated means a test conducted after the appliance or portion of the appliance has resumed operation at normal operating characteristics and conditions of temperature and pressure, except in cases where sound professional judgment dictates that these tests will be more meaningful if performed prior to the return to normal operating characteristics and conditions. A follow-up verification test with respect to repairs conducted without evacuation of the refrigerant charge means a reverification test conducted after the initial verification test and usually within 30 days of normal operating conditions. Where an appliance is not evacuated, it is only necessary to conclude any required changes in pressure, temperature or other conditions to return the appliance to normal operating characteristics and conditions.

Full charge means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, the amount of refrigerant required for normal operating characteristics and conditions of the appliance as determined by using one or a combination of the following four methods:

(i) Use the equipment manufacturer's determination of the correct full charge for the equipment;

(ii) Determine the full charge by making appropriate calculations based on component sizes, density of refrigerant, volume of piping, and other relevant considerations;

(iii) Use actual measurements of the amount of refrigerant added or evacuated from the appliance; and/or

(iv) Use an established range based on the best available data regarding the normal operating characteristics and conditions for the appliance, where the midpoint of the range will serve as the full charge, and where records are maintained in accordance with § 82.166(q).

Industrial process refrigeration means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, complex customized appliances used in the chemical, pharmaceutical, petrochemical and manufacturing industries. These appliances are directly linked to the industrial process. This sector also includes industrial ice machines, appliances used directly in the generation of electricity, and ice rinks. Where one appliance is used for both industrial process refrigeration and other applications, it will be considered industrial process refrigeration equipment if 50 percent or more of its operating capacity is used for industrial process refrigeration.

Industrial process shutdown means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, that an industrial process or facility temporarily ceases to operate or manufacture whatever is being produced at that facility.

Initial verification test means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, those leak tests that are conducted as soon as practicable after the repair is completed. An initial verification test, with regard to the leak repairs that require the evacuation of the appliance or portion of the appliance, means a test conducted prior to the replacement of the full refrigerant charge and before the appliance or portion of the appliance has reached operation at normal operating characteristics and conditions of temperature and pressure. An initial verification test with regard to repairs conducted without the evacuation of the refrigerant charge means a test conducted as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the repair work.

Leak rate means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, the rate at which an appliance is losing refrigerant, measured between refrigerant charges. The leak rate is expressed in terms of the percentage of the appliance's full charge that would be lost over a 12-month period if the current rate of loss were to continue over that period. The rate is calculated using only one of the following methods for all appliances located at an operating facility.

(i) Method 1. (A) Step 1. Take the number of pounds of refrigerant added to the appliance to return it to a full charge and divide it by the number of pounds of refrigerant the appliance normally contains at full charge;

(B) Step 2. Take the shorter of the number of days that have passed since the last day refrigerant was added or 365 days and divide that number by 365 days;

(C) Step 3. Take the number calculated in Step 1. and divide it by the number calculated in Step 2.; and

(D) Step 4. Multiply the number calculated in Step 3. by 100 to calculate a percentage. This method is summarized in the following formula:

(ii) Method 2. (A) Step 1. Take the sum of the quantity of refrigerant added to the appliance over the previous 365-day period (or over the period that has passed since leaks in the appliance were last repaired, if that period is less than one year),

(B) Step 2. Divide the result of Step 1. by the quantity (e.g., pounds) of refrigerant the appliance normally contains at full charge, and

(C) Step 3. Multiply the result of Step 2. by 100 to obtain a percentage. This method is summarized in the following formula:

Normal operating characteristics or conditions means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, temperatures, pressures, fluid flows, speeds and other characteristics that would normally be expected for a given process load and ambient condition during operation. Normal operating characteristics and conditions are marked by the absence of atypical conditions affecting the operation of the refrigeration appliance.

Normally containing a quantity of refrigerant means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, containing the quantity of refrigerant within the appliance or appliance component when the appliance is operating with a full charge of refrigerant.

Refrigerant means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, any substance consisting in part or whole of a class I or class II ozone-depleting substance that is used for heat transfer purposes and provides a cooling effect.

Substitute means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, any chemical or product, whether existing or new, that is used by any person as an EPA approved replacement for a class I or II ozone-depleting substance in a given refrigeration or air-conditioning end-use.

Suitable replacement refrigerant means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, a refrigerant that is acceptable under section 612(c) of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 and all regulations promulgated under that section, compatible with other materials with which it may come into contact, and able to achieve the temperatures required for the affected industrial process in a technically feasible manner.

System mothballing means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, the intentional shutting down of a refrigeration appliance undertaken for an extended period of time by the owners or operators of that facility, where the refrigerant has been evacuated from the appliance or the affected isolated section of the appliance, at least to atmospheric pressure.
[58 FR 28712, May 14, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 42956, 42962, Aug. 19, 1994; 59 FR 55926, Nov. 9, 1994; 60 FR 40440, Aug. 8, 1995; 68 FR 43807, July 24, 2003; 69 FR 11979, Mar. 12, 2004; 70 FR 1991, Jan. 11, 2005; 79 FR 29690, May 23, 2014; 8a FR 82354, Nov. 18, 2016]

### § 82.157 Appliance maintenance and leak repair.

(a) Applicability. This section applies as of January 1, 2019. As of April 10, 2020, this section applies only to appliances with a full charge of 50 or more pounds of any class I or class II refrigerant or blend containing a class I or class II refrigerant. Notwithstanding the use of the term refrigerant in this section, the requirements of this section do not apply to appliances containing solely substitute refrigerants. Unless otherwise specified, the requirements of this section apply to the owner or operator of the appliance.

(b) Leak rate calculation. Persons adding or removing refrigerant from an appliance must, upon conclusion of that service, provide the owner or operator with documentation that meets the applicable requirements of paragraph (l)(2) of this section. The owner or operator must calculate the leak rate every time refrigerant is added to an appliance unless the addition is made immediately following a retrofit, installation of a new appliance, or qualifies as a seasonal variance.

(c) Requirement to address leaks through appliance repair, or retrofitting or retiring an appliance. (1) Owners or operators must repair appliances with a leak rate over the applicable leak rate in this paragraph in accordance with paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section unless the owner or operator elects to retrofit or retire the appliance in compliance with paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section. If the owner or operator elects to repair leaks, but fails to bring the leak rate below the applicable leak rate, the owner or operator must create and implement a retrofit or retirement plan in accordance with paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section.

(2) Leak Rates:

(i) 20 percent leak rate for commercial refrigeration equipment;

(ii) 30 percent leak rate for industrial process refrigeration equipment; and

(iii) 10 percent leak rate for comfort cooling appliances or other appliances with a full charge of 50 or more pounds of refrigerant not covered by (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(d) Appliance repair. Owners or operators must identify and repair leaks in accordance with this paragraph within 30 days (or 120 days if an industrial process shutdown is required) of when refrigerant is added to an appliance exceeding the applicable leak rate in paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) A certified technician must conduct a leak inspection, as described in paragraph (g) of this section, to identify the location of leaks.

(2) Leaks must be repaired such that the leak rate is brought below the applicable leak rate. This must be confirmed by the leak rate calculation performed upon the next refrigerant addition. The leaks will be presumed to be repaired if there is no further refrigerant addition for 12 months after the repair or if the leak inspections required under paragraph (g) do not find any leaks in the appliance. Repair of leaks must be documented by both an initial and a follow-up verification test or tests.

(3) The time frames in paragraphs (d) through(f) of this section are temporarily suspended when an appliance is mothballed. The time will resume on the day additional refrigerant is added to the appliance (or component of an appliance if the leaking component was isolated).

(e) Verification tests. The owner or operator must conduct both initial and follow-up verification tests on each leak that was repaired under paragraph (d) of this section.

(1) Initial verification test. Unless granted additional time, an initial verification test must be performed within 30 days (or 120 days if an industrial process shutdown is required) of an appliance exceeding the applicable leak rate in paragraph (c) of this section. An initial verification test must demonstrate that leaks where a repair attempt was made are repaired.

(i) For repairs that can be completed without the need to open or evacuate the appliance, the test must be performed after the conclusion of the repair work and before any additional refrigerant is added to the appliance.

(ii) For repairs that require the evacuation of the appliance or portion of the appliance, the test must be performed before adding any refrigerant to the appliance.

(iii) If the initial verification test indicates that the repairs have not been successful, the owner or operator may conduct as many additional repairs and initial verification tests as needed within the applicable time period.

(2) Follow-up verification test. A follow-up verification test must be performed within 10 days of the successful initial verification test or 10 days of the appliance reaching normal operating characteristics and conditions (if the appliance or isolated component was evacuated for the repair(s)). Where it is unsafe to be present or otherwise impossible to conduct a follow-up verification test when the system is operating at normal operating characteristics and conditions, the verification test must, where practicable, be conducted prior to the system returning to normal operating characteristics and conditions.

(i) A follow-up verification test must demonstrate that leaks where a repair attempt was made are repaired. If the follow-up verification test indicates that the repairs have not been successful, the owner or operator may conduct as many additional repairs and verification tests as needed to bring the appliance below the leak rate within the applicable time period and to verify the repairs.

(f) Extensions to the appliance repair deadlines. Owners or operators are permitted more than 30 days (or 120 days if an industrial process shutdown is required) to comply with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section if they meet the requirements of (f)(1) through (4) of this section or the appliance is mothballed. The request will be considered approved unless EPA notifies the owners or operators otherwise.

(1) One or more of the following conditions must apply:

(i) The appliance is located in an area subject to radiological contamination or shutting down the appliance will directly lead to radiological contamination. Additional time is permitted to the extent needed to conduct and finish repairs in a safe working environment.

(ii) Requirements of other applicable Federal, state, or local regulations make a repair within 30 days (or 120 days if an industrial process shutdown is required) impossible. Additional time is permitted to the extent needed to comply with the pertinent regulations.

(iii) Components that must be replaced as part of the repair are not available within 30 days (or 120 days if an industrial process shutdown is required). Additional time is permitted up to 30 days after receiving delivery of the necessary components, not to exceed 180 days (or 270 days if an industrial process shutdown is required) from the date the appliance exceeded the applicable leak rate.

(2) Repairs to leaks that the technician has identified as significantly contributing to the exceedance of the leak rate and that do not require additional time must be completed and verified within the initial 30 day repair period (or 120 day repair period if an industrial process shutdown is required);

(3) The owner or operator must document all repair efforts and the reason for the inability to make the repair within the initial 30 day repair period (or 120 day repair period if an industrial process shutdown is required); and

(4) The owner or operator must request an extension from EPA at the address specified in paragraph (m) of this section within 30 days (or 120 days if an industrial process shutdown is required) of the appliance exceeding the applicable leak rate in paragraph (c) of this section. Extension requests must include: Identification and address of the facility; the name of the owner or operator of the appliance; the leak rate; the method used to determine the leak rate and full charge; the date the appliance exceeded the applicable leak rate; the location of leak(s) to the extent determined to date; any repair work that has been performed thus far, including the date that work was completed; the reasons why more than 30 days (or 120 days if an industrial process shutdown is required) are needed to complete the repair; and an estimate of when the work will be completed. If the estimated completion date is to be extended, a new estimated date of completion and documentation of the reason for that change must be submitted to EPA within 30 days of identifying that the completion date must be extended. The owner or operator must keep a dated copy of this submission.

(g) Leak inspections. (1) The owner or operator must conduct a leak inspection in accordance with the following schedule on any appliance exceeding the applicable leak rate in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(i) For commercial refrigeration and industrial process refrigeration appliances with a full charge of 500 or more pounds, leak inspections must be conducted once every three months until the owner or operator can demonstrate through the leak rate calculations required under paragraph (b) of this section that the appliance has not leaked in excess of the applicable leak rate for four quarters in a row.

(ii) For commercial refrigeration and industrial process refrigeration appliances with a full charge of 50 or more pounds but less than 500 pounds, leak inspections must be conducted once per calendar year until the owner or operator can demonstrate through the leak rate calculations required under paragraph (b) of this section that the appliance has not leaked in excess of the applicable leak rate for one year.

(iii) For comfort cooling appliances and other appliances not covered by paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, leak inspections must be conducted once per calendar year until the owner or operator can demonstrate through the leak rate calculations required under paragraph (b) of this section that the appliance has not leaked in excess of the applicable leak rate for one year.

(2) Leak inspections must be conducted by a certified technician using method(s) determined by the technician to be appropriate for that appliance.

(3) All visible and accessible components of an appliance must be inspected, with the following exceptions:

(i) Where components are insulated, under ice that forms on the outside of equipment, underground, behind walls, or are otherwise inaccessible;

(ii) Where personnel must be elevated more than two meters above a support surface; or

(iii) Where components are unsafe to inspect, as determined by site personnel.

(4) Quarterly or annual leak inspections are not required on appliances, or portions of appliances, continuously monitored by an automatic leak detection system that is audited or calibrated annually. An automatic leak detection system may directly detect refrigerant in air, monitor its surrounding in a manner other than detecting refrigerant concentrations in air, or monitor conditions of the appliance.

(i) For systems that directly detect the presence of a refrigerant in air, the system must:

(A) Only be used to monitor components located inside an enclosed building or structure;

(B) Have sensors or intakes placed so that they will continuously monitor the refrigerant concentrations in air in proximity to the compressor, evaporator, condenser, and other areas with a high potential for a refrigerant leak;

(C) Accurately detect a concentration level of 10 parts per million of vapor of the specific refrigerant or refrigerants used in the refrigeration appliance(s); and

(D) Alert the owner or operator when a refrigerant concentration of 100 parts per million of vapor of the specific refrigerant or refrigerants used in the refrigeration appliance(s) is reached.

(ii) For a system that monitors its surrounding in a manner other than detecting refrigerant concentrations in air or monitor conditions of the appliance, the system must automatically alert the owner or operator when measurements indicate a loss of 50 pounds of refrigerant or 10 percent of the full charge, whichever is less.

(iii) When automatic leak detection equipment is only being used to monitor portions of an appliance, the remainder of the appliance continues to be subject to any applicable leak inspection requirements.

(h) Retrofit or retirement plans. (1) The owner or operator must create a retrofit or retirement plan within 30 days of:

(i) an appliance leaking above the applicable leak rate in paragraph (c) of this section if the owner or operator intends to retrofit or retire rather than repair the leak;

(ii) an appliance leaking above the applicable leak rate in paragraph (c) of this section if the owner or operator fails to take any action to identify or repair the leak; or

(iii) an appliance continues to leak above the applicable leak rate after having conducted the required repairs and verification tests under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.

(2) A retrofit or retirement plan must, at a minimum, contain the following information:

(i) Identification and location of the appliance;

(ii) Type and full charge of the refrigerant used in the appliance;

(iii) Type and full charge of the refrigerant to which the appliance will be converted, if retrofitted;

(iv) Itemized procedure for converting the appliance to a different refrigerant, including changes required for compatibility with the new substitute, if retrofitted;

(v) Plan for the disposition of recovered refrigerant;

(vi) Plan for the disposition of the appliance, if retired; and

(vii) A schedule, not to exceed one-year, for completion of the appliance retrofit or retirement.

(3) The retrofit or retirement plan must be signed by an authorized company official, dated, accessible at the site of the appliance in paper copy or electronic format, and available for EPA inspection upon request.

(4) All identified leaks must be repaired as part of any retrofit under such a plan.

(5)(i) Unless granted additional time, all work performed in accordance with the plan must be finished within one year of the plan's date (not to exceed 13 months from when the plan was required in paragraph (h)(1) of this section).

(ii) The owner or operator may request that EPA relieve it of the obligation to retrofit or retire an appliance if the owner or operator can establish within 180 days of the plan's date that the appliance no longer exceeds the applicable leak rate and if the owner or operator agrees in writing to repair all identified leaks within one year of the plan's date consistent with paragraph (h)(4) and (h)(5)(i) of this section. The owner or operator must submit to EPA the retrofit or retirement plan as well as the following information: The date that the requirement to develop a retrofit or retirement plan was triggered; the leak rate; the method used to determine the leak rate and full charge; the location of the leak(s) identified in the leak inspection; a description of repair work that has been completed; a description of repair work that has not been completed; a description of why the repair was not conducted within the time frames required under paragraphs (d) and (f) of this section; and a statement signed by an authorized official that all identified leaks will be repaired and an estimate of when those repairs will be completed (not to exceed one year from date of the plan). The request will be considered approved unless EPA notifies the owners or operators within 60 days of receipt of the request that it is not approved.

(i) Extensions to the one-year retrofit or retirement schedule. Owners or operators may request more than one year to comply with paragraph (h) of this section if they meet the requirements of this paragraph. The request will be considered approved unless EPA notifies the owners or operators within 60 days of receipt of the request that it is not approved. The request must be submitted to EPA at the address specified in § 82.157(m) within seven months of discovering the appliance exceeded the applicable leak rate. The request must include the identification of the appliance; name of the owner or operator; the leak rate; the method used to determine the leak rate and full charge; the date the appliance exceeded the applicable leak rate; the location of leaks(s) to the extent determined to date; any repair work that has been finished thus far, including the date that work was finished; a plan to finish the retrofit or retirement of the appliance; the reasons why more than one year is necessary to retrofit or retire the appliance; the date of notification to EPA; and an estimate of when retrofit or retirement work will be finished. A dated copy of the request must be available on-site in either electronic or paper copy. If the estimated completion date is to be revised, a new estimated date of completion and documentation of the reason for that change must be submitted to EPA at the address specified in § 82.157(m) within 30 days. Additionally, the time frames in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section are temporarily suspended when an appliance is mothballed. The time will resume running on the day additional refrigerant is added to the appliance (or component of an appliance if the leaking component was isolated).

(1) Extensions available to any appliance. Owners or operators of commercial refrigeration, industrial process refrigeration, comfort-cooling, or other equipment are automatically allowed 18 months to retire an appliance if the replacement appliance uses a substitute refrigerant exempted under § 82.154(a).

(2) Extensions available to industrial process refrigeration. Owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment may request additional time beyond the one-year period in paragraph (h) of this section to finish the retrofit or retirement under the following circumstances.

(i) Requirements of other applicable Federal, state, or local regulations make a retrofit or retirement within one year impossible. Additional time is permitted to the extent needed to comply with the pertinent regulations;

(ii) The new or the retrofitted equipment is custom-built as defined in this subpart and the supplier of the appliance or one of its components has quoted a delivery time of more than 30 weeks from when the order is placed. The appliance or appliance components must be installed within 120 days after receiving delivery of the necessary parts; or

(iii) After receiving an extension under paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section, owners or operators may request additional time if necessary to finish the retrofit or retirement of equipment. The request must be submitted to EPA before the end of the ninth month of the initial extension and must include the same information submitted for that extension, with any necessary revisions. A dated copy of the request must be available on-site in either electronic or paper copy. The request will be considered approved unless EPA notifies the owners or operators within 60 days of receipt of the request that it is not approved.

(3) Extensions available to Federally owned equipment. Owners or operators of federally owned commercial or comfort-cooling equipment may request an additional year beyond the one-year period in paragraph (h) of this section to finish the retrofit or retirement under the following circumstances:

(i) A delivery time of more than 30 weeks from the beginning of the official procurement process is quoted due to complications presented by the Federal agency appropriations and/or procurement process;

(ii) The appliance is located in an area subject to radiological contamination and creating a safe working environment will require more than 30 weeks; or

(iii) After receiving a one-year extension under paragraphs (i)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, additional time may be requested if necessary to finish the retrofit or retirement of equipment. The request must be submitted to EPA before the end of the ninth month of the one-year extension and must include the same information submitted for that one-year extension, with any necessary revisions. A dated copy of the request must be available on-site in either electronic or paper copy. The request will be considered approved unless EPA notifies the owners or operators within 60 days of receipt of the request that it is not approved.

(j) Chronically leaking appliances. Owners or operators of appliances containing 50 pounds or more of refrigerant that leak 125 percent or more of the full charge in a calendar year must submit a report to EPA at the address in paragraph (m) of this section. This report must be submitted by March 1 of the subsequent year and describe efforts to identify leaks and repair the appliance.

(k) Purged refrigerant. In calculating annual leak rates, purged refrigerant that is destroyed at a verifiable destruction efficiency of 98 percent or greater will not be counted toward the leak rate.

(l) Recordkeeping. All records identified in this paragraph must be kept for at least three years in electronic or paper format, unless otherwise specified.

(1) Owners or operators must determine the full charge of all appliances with 50 or more pounds of refrigerant and maintain the following information for each appliance until three years after the appliance is retired:

(i) The identification of the owner or operator of the appliance;

(ii) The address where the appliance is located;

(iii) The full charge of the appliance and the method for how the full charge was determined;

(iv) If using method 4 (using an established range) for determining full charge, records must include the range for the full charge of the appliance, its midpoint, and how the range was determined;

(v) Any revisions of the full charge, how they were determined, and the dates such revisions occurred.

(2) Owners or operators must maintain a record including the following information for each time an appliance with a full charge of 50 or more pounds is maintained, serviced, repaired, or disposed of, when applicable. If the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal is done by someone other than the owner or operator, that person must provide a record containing the following information, with the exception of (l)(2)(vii) and (viii) of this section, to the owner or operator:

(i) The identity and location of the appliance;

(ii) The date of the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal performed;

(iii) The part(s) of the appliance being maintained, serviced, repaired, or disposed;

(iv) The type of maintenance, service, repair, or disposal performed for each part;

(v) The name of the person performing the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal;

(vi) The amount and type of refrigerant added to, or in the case of disposal removed from, the appliance;

(vii) The full charge of the appliance; and

(viii) The leak rate and the method used to determine the leak rate (not applicable when disposing of the appliance, following a retrofit, installing a new appliance, or if the refrigerant addition qualifies as a seasonal variance).

(3) Owners or operators must keep records of leak inspections that include the date of inspection, the method(s) used to conduct the leak inspection, a list of the location of each leak that was identified, and a certification that all visible and accessible parts of the appliance were inspected. Technicians conducting leak inspections must, upon conclusion of that service, provide the owner or operator of the appliance with documentation that meets these requirements.

(4) If using an automatic leak detection system, the owner or operator must maintain records regarding the installation and the annual audit and calibration of the system, a record of each date the monitoring system identified a leak, and the location of the leak.

(5) Owners or operators must maintain records of the dates and results of all initial and follow-up verification tests. Records must include the location of the appliance, the date(s) of the verification tests, the location(s) of all repaired leaks that were tested, the type(s) of verification test(s) used, and the results of those tests. Technicians conducting initial or follow-up verification tests must, upon conclusion of that service, provide the owner or operator of the appliance with documentation that meets these requirements.

(6) Owners or operators must maintain retrofit or retirement plans developed in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.

(7) Owners or operators must maintain retrofit and/or extension requests submitted to EPA in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.

(8) Owners or operators that suspend the deadlines in this section by mothballing an appliance must keep records documenting when the appliance was mothballed and when additional refrigerant was added to the appliance (or isolated component).

(9) Owners or operators who exclude purged refrigerants that are destroyed from annual leak rate calculations must maintain records to support the amount of refrigerant claimed as sent for destruction. Records must be based on a monitoring strategy that provides reliable data to demonstrate that the amount of refrigerant claimed to have been destroyed is not greater than the amount of refrigerant actually purged and destroyed and that the 98 percent or greater destruction efficiency is met. Records must include flow rate, quantity or concentration of the refrigerant in the vent stream, and periods of purge flow. Records must include:

(i) The identification of the facility and a contact person, including the address and telephone number;

(ii) A description of the appliance, focusing on aspects relevant to the purging of refrigerant and subsequent destruction;

(iii) A description of the methods used to determine the quantity of refrigerant sent for destruction and type of records that are being kept by the owners or operators where the appliance is located;

(iv) The frequency of monitoring and data-recording; and

(v) A description of the control device, and its destruction efficiency.

(10) Owners or operators that exclude additions of refrigerant due to seasonal variance from their leak rate calculation must maintain records stating that they are using the seasonal variance flexibility and documenting the amount added and removed under § 82.157(l)(2).

(11) Owners or operators that submit reports to EPA in accordance with paragraph (m) of this section must maintain copies of the submitted reports and any responses from EPA.

(m) Reporting. All notifications must be submitted electronically to 608reports@epa.gov unless the notification contains confidential business information. If the notification contains confidential business information, the information should be submitted to: Section 608 Program Manager; Stratospheric Protection Division; Mail Code: 6205T; U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20460.

(1) Owners or operators must notify EPA at this address in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section when seeking an extension of time to complete repairs.

(2) Owners or operators must notify EPA at this address in accordance with paragraph (h)(5)(ii) of this section when seeking relief from the obligation to retrofit or retire an appliance.

(3) Owners or operators must notify EPA at this address in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section when seeking an extension of time to complete the retrofit or retirement of an appliance.

(4) Owners or operators must notify EPA at this address in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section for any appliance that leaks 125 percent or more of the full charge in a calendar year.

(5) When excluding purged refrigerants that are destroyed from annual leak rate calculations, owners or operators must notify EPA at this address within 60 days after the first time the exclusion is used by the facility where the appliance is located. The report must include the information included in paragraph (l)(9) of this section.
[81 FR 82356, Nov. 18, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 14171, Apr. 10, 2020]

### § 82.158 Standards for recovery and/or recycling equipment.

Starting January 1, 2017, this section applies to recovery and/or recycling equipment for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances containing any class I or class II refrigerant or any non-exempt substitute refrigerant.

(a) No person may manufacture or import recovery and/or recycling equipment for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances unless the equipment is certified in accordance with this section.

(b) No person may alter the design of certified refrigerant recovery and/or recycling equipment in a way that would affect the equipment's ability to meet the certification standards in this section without resubmitting the altered design for certification testing. Until it is tested and shown to meet the certification standards in this section, equipment so altered will be considered uncertified.

(c) Recovery and/or recycling equipment manufactured or imported before November 15, 1993, intended for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) will be considered certified if it is capable of achieving the level of evacuation specified in Table 2 of this section when tested using a properly calibrated pressure gauge.

(d) Manufacturers and importers of recovery and/or recycling equipment must have such equipment certified by an approved equipment testing organization as follows:

(1) Recovery and/or recycling equipment manufactured or imported on or after November 15, 1993, and before September 22, 2003, intended for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) must be certified by an approved equipment testing organization as being capable of achieving the level of evacuation specified in Table 2 of this section under the conditions of appendix B1 of this subpart (based upon the ARI Standard 740-1993, Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling and/or Reclaim Equipment).

(2) Recovery and/or recycling equipment manufactured or imported on or after September 22, 2003, and before January 1, 2017, intended for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) must be certified by an approved equipment testing organization as being capable of achieving the level of evacuation specified in Table 2 of this section under the conditions of appendix B2 of this subpart (based upon the ARI Standard 740-1995, Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling and/or Reclaim Equipment).

(3) Recovery and/or recycling equipment manufactured or imported on or after January 1, 2017, intended for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) must be certified by an approved equipment testing organization as being capable of achieving the level of evacuation specified in Table 2 of this section under the conditions of appendix B3 (for non-flammable refrigerants) based upon AHRI Standard 740-2016 or appendix B4 (for flammable refrigerants) of this subpart.

Table 2—Levels of Evacuation Which Must Be Achieved by Recovery and/or Recycling Equipment[Except for small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances.]

Type of appliance with which recovery and/or recycling machine is intended to be used
Inches of Hg vacuum(relative to standard atmospheric pressure of 29.9 inches Hg)

Manufactured orimported beforeNovember 15, 1993
Manufactured orimported on or afterNovember 15, 1993

HCFC-22 appliances, or isolated component of such appliances, with a full charge of less than 200 pounds of refrigerant
0
0.

HCFC-22 appliances, or isolated component of such appliances, with a full charge of 200 pounds or more of refrigerant
4
10.

Very high-pressure appliances
0
0.

Other high-pressure appliances, or isolated component of such appliances, with a full charge of less than 200 pounds of refrigerant
4
10.

Other high-pressure appliances, or isolated component of such appliances, with a full charge of 200 pounds or more of refrigerant
4
15.

Medium-pressure appliances, or isolated component of such appliances, with a full charge of less than 200 pounds of refrigerant
4
10.

Medium-pressure appliances, or isolated component of such appliances, with a full charge of 200 pounds or more of refrigerant
4
15.

Low-pressure appliances
25 mm Hg absolute
25 mm Hg absolute.

(4) Recovery and/or recycling equipment whose recovery efficiency cannot be tested according to the procedures in appendix B1, B2, B3, or B4 of this subpart as applicable may be certified if an approved third-party testing organization adopts and performs a test that demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, that the recovery efficiency of that equipment is equal to or better than that of equipment that:

(i) Is intended for use with the same type of appliance; and

(ii) Achieves the level of evacuation in Table 2. The manufacturer's instructions must specify how to achieve the required recovery efficiency, and the equipment must be tested when used according to these instructions.

(5) The equipment must meet the minimum requirements for certification under appendix B1, B2, B3, or B4 of this subpart as applicable.

(6) If the equipment is equipped with a noncondensables purge device, the equipment must not release more than 3 percent of the quantity of refrigerant being recycled through noncondensables purging under the conditions of appendix B1, B2, B3, or B4 of this subpart as applicable.

(7) The equipment must be equipped with low-loss fittings on all hoses.

(8) The equipment must have its liquid recovery rate and its vapor recovery rate measured under the conditions of appendix B1, B2, B3, or B4 as applicable, unless the equipment has no inherent liquid or vapor recovery rate.

(e) Small appliances. Equipment used during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of small appliances must be certified by an approved equipment testing organization to be capable of recovering 90 percent of the refrigerant in the test stand when the compressor of the test stand is operational and 80 percent of the refrigerant when the compressor of the test stand is not operational, when used in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions under the conditions of appendix C, Method for Testing Recovery Devices for Use with Small Appliances.

(1) Equipment manufactured or imported before November 15, 1993, will be considered certified if it is capable of either recovering 80 percent of the refrigerant in the system, whether or not the compressor of the test stand is operational, or achieving a four-inch vacuum when tested using a properly calibrated pressure gauge.

(2) Equipment manufactured or imported on or after November 15, 1993, may also be certified if it is capable of achieving a four-inch vacuum under the conditions of appendix B1 of this subpart, based upon ARI Standard 740-1993.

(3) Equipment manufactured or imported on or after September 22, 2003, and before January 1, 2017, may also be certified if it is capable of achieving a four-inch vacuum under the conditions of appendix B2 of this subpart, based upon ARI Standard 740-1995.

(4) Equipment manufactured or imported on or after January 1, 2017, may also be certified if it is capable of achieving a four-inch vacuum under the conditions of appendix B3 of this subpart (for non-flammable refrigerants), based upon AHRI Standard 740-2016 or appendix B4 of this subpart (for flammable refrigerants), based upon both AHRI Standard 740-2016 and UL 1963, Supplement SB, Requirements for Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment Intended for Use with a Flammable Refrigerant, Fourth Edition, June 1, 2011.

(5) Equipment used to evacuate any class I or class II refrigerant or any non-exempt substitute refrigerant from small appliances before they are disposed of may also be certified if it is capable of achieving a four-inch vacuum when tested using a properly calibrated pressure gauge.

(f) MVAC-like appliances. (1) Manufacturers and importers of recovery and/or recycling equipment intended for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of MVAC-like appliances must certify such equipment in accordance with subpart B of this part.

(2) Equipment manufactured or imported before November 15, 1993, intended for use during the maintenance, service, or repair of MVAC-like appliances must be capable of reducing the system pressure to 102 mm of mercury vacuum under the conditions of appendix A of subpart B of this part.

(g) MVACs. Manufacturers and importers of recovery and/or recycling equipment intended for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of MVACs must certify such equipment in accordance with subpart B of this part.

(h) Labeling. (1) Manufacturers and importers of equipment certified under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section must place a label on each piece of equipment stating the following:
THIS EQUIPMENT HAS BEEN CERTIFIED BY [APPROVED EQUIPMENT TESTING ORGANIZATION] TO MEET EPA's MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR RECYCLING OR RECOVERY EQUIPMENT INTENDED FOR USE WITH [APPROPRIATE CATEGORY OF APPLIANCE].

(2) The label must also show the date of manufacture and the serial number (if applicable) of the equipment. The label must be affixed in a readily visible or accessible location, be made of a material expected to last the lifetime of the equipment, present required information in a way that it is likely to remain legible for the lifetime of the equipment, and be affixed in such a way that it cannot be removed from the equipment without damage to the label.

(i) Retesting. At least once every three years, manufacturers or importers of certified recovery and/or recycling equipment intended for use during the maintenance, service, or repair of appliances (except MVACs or MVAC-like appliances) or during the disposal of appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) must have approved equipment testing organizations conduct either:

(1) Retests of certified recovery and/or recycling equipment in accordance with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section; or

(2) Inspections of recovery and/or recycling equipment at manufacturing facilities to ensure that each equipment model line that has been certified under this section continues to meet the certification criteria.

(j) Revocation. An equipment model line that has been certified under this section may have its certification revoked if it is subsequently determined to fail to meet the certification criteria. In such cases, the Administrator must give notice to the manufacturer or importer setting forth the basis for the determination.

(k) Equipment that is advertised or marketed as &#x201C;recycling equipment&#x201D; must be capable of recycling the standard contaminated refrigerant sample of appendix B2, B3, or B4 of this subpart (as applicable) to the levels in the following table when tested under the conditions of appendix B2, B3 or B4 of this subpart:

Maximum Levels of Contaminants Permissible in Refrigerant Processed Through Equipment Advertised as &#x201C;Recycling&#x201D; Equipment

Contaminants
Low-pressure (R-11, R-123, R-113) systems
R-12 systems
All other systems

Acid Content (by wt.)
1.0 PPM
1.0 PPM
1.0 PPM.

Moisture (by wt.)
20 PPM
10 PPM
20 PPM.

Noncondensable Gas (by vol.)
N/A
2.0%
2.0%.

High Boiling Residues (by vol.)
1.0%
0.02%
0.02%.

Chlorides by Silver Nitrate Test
No turbidity
No turbidity
No turbidity.

Particulates
Visually clean
Visually clean
Visually clean.

[81 FR 82360, Nov. 18, 2016]

### § 82.160 Approved equipment testing organizations.

(a) Any equipment testing organization may apply for approval by the Administrator to certify equipment under the standards in § 82.158 and appendices B2, B3, B4, or C of this subpart. Applications must be sent to 608reports@epa.gov, or if containing confidential business information, mailed to: Section 608 Program Manager, Stratospheric Protection Division, Mail Code: 6205T, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20460.

(b) Applications for approval must include:

(1) A list of equipment present at the organization that will be used for equipment testing.

(2) Verification of the organization's expertise in equipment testing and the technical experience of the organization's personnel.

(3) Verification of the organization's knowledge of the standards and recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart.

(4) A description of the organization's program for verifying the performance of certified recovery and/or recycling equipment manufactured over the long term, specifying whether retests of equipment or inspections of equipment at manufacturing facilities will be used.

(5) Verification that the organization has no conflict of interest and receives no direct or indirect financial benefit from the outcome of certification testing.

(6) Agreement to allow the Administrator access to records and personnel to verify the information contained in the application.

(c) Organizations may not certify equipment before receiving approval from EPA. If approval is denied under this section, the Administrator must give written notice to the organization setting forth the basis for the determination.

(d) If an approved testing organization conducts certification tests in a way not consistent with the representations made in its application or with the provisions of this subpart, the Administrator may revoke approval in accordance with § 82.169. In such cases, the Administrator must give notice to the organization setting forth the basis for the determination.

(e) Recordkeeping and reporting. (1) Approved equipment testing organizations must maintain records of equipment testing and performance and a list of equipment that meets EPA requirements. This list must include the name of the manufacturer and the name and/or serial number of the model line. Approved equipment testing organizations must publish online a list of all certified equipment that includes the information specified above and update the list annually.

(2) Approved equipment testing organizations must notify EPA at 608reports@epa.gov if retests of equipment or inspections of manufacturing facilities conducted under to § 82.158(i) show that a previously certified model line fails to meet EPA requirements. Such notification must be received within thirty days of the retest or inspection.

(3) All records must be maintained for three years after the equipment is no longer offered for sale. Online lists must contain certified equipment until three years after that equipment is no longer offered for sale.
[81 FR 82362, Nov. 18, 2016]

### § 82.161 Technician certification.

Until January 1, 2018, this section applies only to technicians and organizations certifying technicians that maintain, service, or repair appliances containing class I or class II refrigerants. Starting on January 1, 2018, this section applies to technicians and organizations certifying technicians that maintain, service, or repair appliances containing any class I or class II refrigerant or any non-exempt substitute refrigerant.

(a) Certification requirements. (1) Any person who could be reasonably expected to violate the integrity of the refrigerant circuit during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances (as follows in this paragraph) containing a class I or class II refrigerant or a non-exempt substitute refrigerant must pass a certification exam offered by an approved technician certification program.

(i) Persons who maintain, service, or repair small appliances must be certified as Type I technicians.

(ii) Persons who maintain, service, repair, or dispose of medium-, high-, or very high-pressure appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) must be certified as Type II technicians.

(iii) Persons who maintain, service, repair, or dispose of low-pressure appliances must be certified as Type III technicians.

(iv) Persons who maintain, service, repair, or dispose of all appliances described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section must be certified as Universal technicians.

(v) Technicians who maintain, service, or repair MVAC-like appliances must either be certified as Type II technicians or be certified in accordance with 40 CFR part 82, subpart B.

(vi) Persons who maintain, service, or repair MVAC appliances for consideration must be certified in accordance with 40 CFR part 82, subpart B.

(vii) Persons who dispose of small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances are not required to be certified.

(2) Apprentices are exempt from the requirement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section provided the apprentice is closely and continually supervised by a certified technician while performing any maintenance, service, repair, or disposal that could reasonably be expected to release refrigerant from an appliance into the environment, except those substitute refrigerants exempted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The supervising certified technician and the apprentice have the responsibility to ensure that the apprentice complies with this subpart.

(3) The Administrator may require technicians to demonstrate at their place of business their ability to perform proper procedures for recovering and/or recycling refrigerant, except those substitute refrigerants exempted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Failure to demonstrate or failure to properly use the equipment may result in revocation or suspension of the certificate. Failure to abide by any of the provisions of this subpart may also result in revocation or suspension of the certificate. If a technician's certificate is revoked, the technician would need to recertify before maintaining, servicing, repairing, or disposing of any appliances.

(4) (i) Technicians certified under this section must keep a copy of their certificate at their place of business.

(ii) Technicians must maintain a copy of their certificate until three years after no longer operating as a technician.

(5) Recertification. The Administrator reserves the right to specify a requirement for technician recertification at some future date, if necessary, by placing a notice in the Federal Register.

(b) Requirements for Technician Certification Programs. (1) No technician training or testing program may issue certificates under this section unless the program complies with all the standards of this section and appendix D, and has been granted approval by the Administrator.

(2) Program approval. Persons may seek approval of any technician certification program (program), in accordance with this paragraph, by submitting to the Administrator at the address in § 82.160(a) verification that the program meets all the standards listed in appendix D of this subpart. The Administrator reserves the right to consider other relevant factors to ensure the effectiveness of certification programs. If approval is denied under this section, the Administrator must give written notice to the program setting forth the basis for the determination.

(3) Alternative examinations. Programs are encouraged to make provisions for non-English speaking technicians by providing tests in other languages or allowing the use of a translator when taking the test. A test may be administered orally to any person who makes this request, in writing, to the program at least 30 days before the scheduled date for the examination. The written request must explain why the request is being made.

(4) Proof of certification. Programs certifying technicians must provide technicians with identification cards in accordance with section (f) of appendix D of this subpart.

(5) Programs certifying technicians must maintain records in accordance with section (g) of appendix D of this subpart.

(6) Starting January 1, 2018, programs certifying technicians, excluding Federally-run programs, must publish online a list of all technicians they have certified on or after January 1, 2017. Certifying organizations must update these lists at least annually.

(i) The list must include the first name, middle initial, and last name of the certified technician, the technician's city of residence when taking the test, the type(s) of certification received, and the date each certification was received.

(ii) Programs certifying technicians must provide notice to technicians that such information will be published online in compliance with any other Federal, state or local regulations, and allow technicians to opt out of being included in such lists.

(7) If an approved program violates any of the above requirements, the Administrator may revoke approval in accordance with § 82.169. In such cases, the Administrator must give notice to the organization setting forth the basis for the determination.

(c) Test subject material. A bank of test questions developed by the Administrator consists of groups, including a core group and technical groups. The Administrator will release this bank of questions only to approved technician certification programs. Each test for each type of certification must include at least 25 questions drawn from the core group and at least 25 questions drawn from each relevant technical group. These questions must address the subject areas in appendix D of this subpart.
[81 FR 82363, Nov. 18, 2016]

### § 82.162 [Reserved]

### § 82.164 Reclaimer certification.

(a) All persons reclaiming used class I or II refrigerant or non-exempt substitute refrigerant for sale to a new owner must meet the following requirements:

(1) Reclaim such refrigerant to all the specifications in appendix A of this subpart (based on AHRI Standard 700-2016, Specifications for Refrigerants) that are applicable to that refrigerant;

(2) Verify that each batch of such refrigerant reclaimed meets these specifications using the analytical methodology prescribed in appendix A of this subpart, which includes the primary methodologies included in appendix A of AHRI Standard 700-2016;

(3) Release no more than 1.5 percent of the refrigerant during the reclamation process;

(4) Dispose of wastes from the reclamation process in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations; and

(5) Maintain records and submit reports in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) The owner or a responsible officer reclaiming used refrigerant for sale to a new owner, except for persons who properly certified under this section before May 11, 2004, must certify to the Administrator at the address in § 82.160(a) that they will meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section. The certification must include the name and address of the reclaimer and a list of equipment used to reclaim the refrigerant to the required standard, and to analyze the refrigerant to ensure it meets these specifications.

(c) Certificates are not transferable. In the event of a change in ownership of an entity which reclaims refrigerant, the new owner of the entity must certify with the Administrator within 30 days of the change that they will meet the reclaimer certification requirements. In the event of a change in business management, location, or contact information, the owner of the entity must notify EPA within 30 days of the change at the address in § 82.160(a).

(d) Recordkeeping and reporting. (1) Reclaimers must maintain records, by batch, of the results of the analysis conducted to verify that reclaimed refrigerant meets the necessary specifications in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) Reclaimers must maintain records of the names and addresses of persons sending them material for reclamation and the quantity of the material (the combined mass of refrigerant and contaminants) by refrigerant type sent to them for reclamation. Such records must be maintained on a transactional basis for three years.

(3) Reclaimers must report to the Administrator annually by February 1 of the next calendar year the total annual quantity of material (the combined mass of refrigerant and contaminants) by refrigerant type sent to them for reclamation, the total annual mass of each refrigerant reclaimed, and the total annual mass of waste products.

(e) Failure to abide by any of the provisions of this subpart may result in revocation or suspension of the certification of the reclaimer in accordance with § 82.169. In such cases, the Administrator must give notice to the organization setting forth the basis for the determination.
[81 FR 82364, Nov. 18, 2016]

### § 82.166 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements for leak repair.

This section contains leak repair reporting and recordkeeping requirements that apply to owners and operators of appliances containing 50 or more pounds of class I or class II refrigerants until January 1, 2019. Starting January 1, 2019, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in the leak repair provisions in § 82.157(l) and (m) apply to owners and operators of appliances containing 50 or more pounds of class I or class II refrigerants or non-exempt substitutes.

(a)-(i) [Reserved]

(j) Persons servicing appliances normally containing 50 or more pounds of refrigerant must provide the owner/operator of such appliances with an invoice or other documentation, which indicates the amount of refrigerant added to the appliance.

(k) Owners/operators of appliances normally containing 50 or more pounds of refrigerant must keep servicing records documenting the date and type of service, as well as the quantity of refrigerant added. The owner/operator must keep records of refrigerant purchased and added to such appliances in cases where owners add their own refrigerant. Such records should indicate the date(s) when refrigerant is added.

(l) [Reserved]

(m) All records required to be maintained pursuant to this section must be kept for a minimum of three years unless otherwise indicated.

(n) The owners or operators of appliances must maintain on-site and report to EPA Headquarters at the address listed in § 82.160 the information specified in paragraphs (n)(1), (n)(2), and (n)(3) of this section, within the timelines specified under § 82.156 (i)(1), (i)(2), (i)(3) and (i)(5) where such reporting or recordkeeping is required. This information must be relevant to the affected appliance.

(1) An initial report to EPA under § 82.156(i)(1)(i), (i)(2), or (i)(5)(i) regarding why more than 30 days are needed to complete repairs must include: Identification of the facility; the leak rate; the method used to determine the leak rate and full charge; the date a leak rate above the applicable leak rate was discovered; the location of leak(s) to the extent determined to date; any repair work that has been completed thus far and the date that work was completed; the reasons why more than 30 days are needed to complete the work and an estimate of when the work will be completed. If changes from the original estimate of when work will be completed result in extending the completion date from the date submitted to EPA, the reasons for these changes must be documented and submitted to EPA within 30 days of discovering the need for such a change.

(2) If the owners or operators intend to establish that the appliance's leak rate does not exceed the applicable allowable leak rate in accordance with § 82.156(i)(3)(v), the owner or operator must submit a plan to fix other outstanding leaks for which repairs are planned but not yet completed to achieve a rate below the applicable allowable leak rate. A plan to fix other outstanding leaks in accordance with § 82.156(i)(3)(v) must include the following information: The identification of the facility; the leak rate; the method used to determine the leak rate and full charge; the date a leak rate above the applicable allowable leak rate was discovered; the location of leak(s) to the extent determined to date; and any repair work that has been completed thus far, including the date that work was completed. Upon completion of the repair efforts described in the plan, a second report must be submitted that includes the date the owner or operator submitted the initial report concerning the need for additional time beyond the 30 days and notification of the owner or operator's determination that the leak rate no longer exceeds the applicable allowable leak rate. This second report must be submitted within 30 days of determining that the leak rate no longer exceeds the applicable allowable leak rate.

(3) Owners or operators must maintain records of the dates, types, and results of all initial and follow-up verification tests performed under § 82.156(i)(3). Owners or operators must submit this information to EPA within 30 days after conducting each test only where required under § 82.156 (i)(1), (i)(2), (i)(3) and (i)(5). These reports must also include: Identification and physical address of the facility; the leak rate; the method used to determine the leak rate and full charge; the date a leak rate above the applicable allowable leak rate was discovered; the location of leak(s) to the extent determined to date; and any repair work that has been completed thus far and the date that work was completed. Submitted reports must be dated and include the name of the owner or operator of the appliance, and must be signed by an authorized company official.

(o) The owners or operators of appliances must maintain on-site and report to EPA at the address specified in § 82.160 the following information where such reporting and recordkeeping is required and in the timelines specified in § 82.156 (i)(7) and (i)(8), in accordance with § 82.156 (i)(7) and (i)(8). This information must be relevant to the affected appliance and must include:

(1) The identification of the industrial process facility;

(2) The leak rate;

(3) The method used to determine the leak rate and full charge;

(4) The date a leak rate above the applicable allowable rate was discovered.

(5) The location of leaks(s) to the extent determined to date;

(6) Any repair work that has been completed thus far and the date that work was completed;

(7) A plan to complete the retrofit or retirement of the system;

(8) The reasons why more than one year is necessary to retrofit or retire the system;

(9) The date of notification to EPA; and

(10) An estimate of when retrofit or retirement work will be completed. If the estimated date of completion changes from the original estimate and results in extending the date of completion, the owner or operator must submit to EPA the new estimated date of completion and documentation of the reason for the change within 30 days of discovering the need for the change, and must retain a dated copy of this submission.

(p)(1) Owners or operators who wish to exclude purged refrigerants that are destroyed from annual leak rate calculations must maintain records on-site to support the amount of refrigerant claimed as sent for destruction. Records shall be based on a monitoring strategy that provides reliable data to demonstrate that the amount of refrigerant claimed to have been destroyed is not greater than the amount of refrigerant actually purged and destroyed and that the 98 percent or greater destruction efficiency is met. Records shall include flow rate, quantity or concentration of the refrigerant in the vent stream, and periods of purge flow.

(2) Owners or operators who wish to exclude purged refrigerants that are destroyed from annual leak rate calculations must maintain on-site and make available to EPA upon request the following information after the first time the exclusion is utilized by the facility:

(i) The identification of the facility and a contact person, including the address and telephone number;

(ii) A general description of the refrigerant appliance, focusing on aspects of the appliance relevant to the purging of refrigerant and subsequent destruction;

(iii) A description of the methods used to determine the quantity of refrigerant sent for destruction and type of records that are being kept by the owners or operators where the appliance is located;

(iv) The frequency of monitoring and data-recording; and

(v) A description of the control device, and its destruction efficiency.
This information must also be included, where applicable, in any reporting requirements required for compliance with the leak repair and retrofit requirements for industrial process refrigeration equipment, as set forth in paragraphs (n) and (o) of this section.

(q) Owners or operators choosing to determine the full charge as defined in § 82.156(j) of an affected appliance by using an established range or using that methodology in combination with other methods for determining the full charge as defined in § 82.156(j) must maintain the following information:

(1) The identification of the owner or operator of the appliance;

(2) The location of the appliance;

(3) The original range for the full charge of the appliance, its midpoint, and how the range was determined;

(4) Any and all revisions of the full charge range and how they were determined; and

(5) The dates such revisions occurred.
[58 FR 28712, May 14, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 42957, Aug. 19, 1994; 60 FR 40443, Aug. 8, 1995; 69 FR 11981, Mar. 12, 2004; 70 FR 1992, Jan. 11, 2005; 79 FR 64290, Oct. 28, 2014; 81 FR 82364, Nov. 18, 2016]

### § 82.168 Incorporation by Reference.

(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this subpart part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You can obtain the material from the sources listed below. You may inspect a copy of the approved material at U.S. EPA's Air and Radiation Docket; EPA West Building, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030 or go to http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(b) Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute (AHRI), 2111 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 500, Arlington, VA 22201, www.ahrinet.org.

(1) AHRI Standard 110-2016, 2016 Standard for Air-Conditioning, Heating and Refrigerating Equipment Nameplate Voltages, copyright 2016, into Appendix B3 to subpart F.

(2) 2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014, 2008 Appendix C for Analytical Procedures for AHRI Standard 700-2014—Normative, copyright 2008, into Appendix A to subpart F.

(3) 2008 Appendix D to AHRI Standard 700-2014, 2012 Appendix D for Gas Chromatograms for AHRI Standard 700-2014—Informative, copyright 2012, into Appendix A to subpart F.

(c) American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Inc., (ASHRAE), 1791 Tullie Circle NE., Atlanta, GA 30329, U.S.A.

(1) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 63.2-1996 (RA 2010), Method of Testing Liquid-Line Filter Drier Filtration Capability, Reaffirmed June 26, 2010, into Appendix B3 to subpart F.

(d) ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959, www.astm.org.

(1) ASTM D1296-01 (Reapproved 2012), Standard Test Method for Odor of Volatile Solvents and Diluents, approved July 1, 2012, into Appendix A to subpart F.

(2) [Reserved]

(e) Gas Processors Association, 6526 East 60th Street, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74145.

(1) GPA Standard STD-2177-13, Analysis of Natural Gas Liquid Mixtures Containing Nitrogen and Carbon Dioxide by Gas Chromatography, Revised, copyright 2013, into Appendix A to subpart F.

(2) [Reserved]

(f) General Services Administration, 301 7th St. SW., Washington, DC 20410.

(1) BB-F-1421B, Federal Specification for &#x201C;Fluorocarbon Refrigerants,&#x201D; dated March 5, 1982, IBR approved for Appendix A to subpart F.

(2) [Reserved]

(g) International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), 3, rue de Varemb&#xE9;, P.O. Box 131. CH-1211 Geneva 20—Switzerland, 41 22 919 02 11, http://www.iec.ch.

(1) IEC 60038, IEC Standard Voltages, Edition 7.0, 2009-06, into Appendix B3 to subpart F.

(2) [Reserved]

(h) Underwriters Laboratories (UL), 333 Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062, 847-272-8800, http://www.ul.com.

(1) UL 1963, Standard for Safety Requirements for Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment, Fourth Edition (with revisions through October 13, 2013), June 1, 2011, in appendix B3 to subpart F, appendix B4 to subpart F.

(2) [Reserved]
[81 FR 82364, Nov. 18, 2016]

### § 82.169 Suspension and revocation procedures.

(a) Failure to abide by any of the provisions of this subpart may result in the revocation or suspension of the approval to certify technicians (under § 82.161), approval to act as a recovery/recycling equipment testing organization (under § 82.160), or reclaimer certification (under § 82.164), hereafter referred to as the &#x201C;organization.&#x201D; In such cases, the Administrator or her or his designated representative shall give notice of an impending suspension to the person or organization setting forth the facts or conduct that provide the basis for the revocation or suspension.

(b) Any organization that has received notice of an impending suspension or revocation may choose to request a hearing and must file that request in writing within 30 days of the date of the Agency's notice at the address listed in § 82.160 and shall set forth their objections to the revocation or suspension and data to support the objections.

(c) If the Agency does not receive a written request for a hearing within 30 days of the date of the Agency's notice, the revocation will become effective upon the date specified in the notice of an impending suspension.

(d) If after review of the request and supporting data, the Administrator or her or his designated representative finds that the request raises a substantial factual issue, she or he shall provide the organization with a hearing.

(e) After granting a request for a hearing the Administrator or her or his designated representative shall designate a Presiding Officer for the hearing.

(f) The hearing shall be held as soon as practicable at a time and place determined by the Administrator, the designated representative, or the Presiding Officer.

(g) The Administrator or her or his designated representative may, at his or her discretion, direct that all argument and presentation of evidence be concluded within a specified period established by the Administrator or her or his designated representative. Said period may be no less than 30 days from the date that the first written offer of a hearing is made to the applicant. To expedite proceedings, the Administrator or her or his designated representative may direct that the decision of the Presiding Officer (who need not be the Administrator) shall be the final EPA decision.

(h) Upon appointment pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, the Presiding Officer will establish a hearing file. The file shall consist of the following:

(1) The notice issued by the Administrator under § 82.169(a);

(2) the request for a hearing and the supporting data submitted therewith;

(3) all documents relating to the request for certification and all documents submitted therewith; and

(4) correspondence and other data material to the hearing.

(i) The hearing file will be available for inspection by the petitioner at the office of the Presiding Officer.

(j) An applicant may appear in person or may be represented by counsel or by any other duly authorized representative.

(k) The Presiding Officer, upon the request of any party or at his or her discretion, may arrange for a pre-hearing conference at a time and place he or she specifies. Such pre-hearing conferences will consider the following:

(1) Simplification of the issues;

(2) Stipulations, admissions of fact, and the introduction of documents;

(3) Limitation of the number of expert witnesses;

(4) Possibility of agreement disposing of any or all of the issues in dispute; and

(5) Such other matters as may aid in the disposition of the hearing, including such additional tests as may be agreed upon by the parties.

(l) The results of the conference shall be reduced to writing by the Presiding Officer and made part of the record.

(m) Hearings shall be conducted by the Presiding Officer in an informal but orderly and expeditious manner. The parties may offer oral or written evidence, subject to the exclusion by the Presiding Officer of irrelevant, immaterial, and repetitious evidence.

(n) Witnesses will not be required to testify under oath. However, the Presiding Officer shall call to the attention of witnesses that their statements may be subject to the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 1001, which imposes penalties for knowingly making false statements or representations or using false documents in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States.

(o) Any witness may be examined or cross-examined by the Presiding Officer, the parties, or their representatives.

(p) Hearings shall be reported verbatim. Copies of transcripts of proceedings may be purchased by the petitioner from the reporter.

(q) All written statements, charts, tabulations, and similar data offered in evidence at the hearings shall, upon a showing satisfactory to the Presiding Officer of their authenticity, relevancy, and materiality, be received in evidence and shall constitute a part of the record.

(r) Oral argument may be permitted at the discretion of the Presiding Officer and shall be reported as part of the record unless otherwise ordered by the Presiding Officer.

(s) The Presiding Officer shall make an initial decision that shall include written findings and conclusions and the reasons or basis regarding all the material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record. The findings, conclusions, and written decision shall be provided to the parties and made a part of the record. The initial decision shall become the decision of the Administrator without further proceedings, unless there is an appeal to the Administrator or motion for review by the Administrator within 20 days of the date the initial decision was filed.

(t) On appeal from or review of the initial decision, the Administrator or her or his designated representative shall have all the powers which he or she would have in making the initial decision, including the discretion to require or allow briefs, oral argument, the taking of additional evidence, or a remand to the Presiding Officer for additional proceedings. The decision by the Administrator or her or his designated representative shall include written findings and conclusions and the reasons or basis therefore on all the material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented on the appeal or considered in the review.
[68 FR 43809, July 24, 2003]

### Appendix A to Subpart F of Part 82—Specifications for Refrigerants

This appendix is based on the Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute Standard 700-2016, Specifications for Refrigerants.
Section 1. Purpose

1.1 Purpose. The purpose of this standard is to evaluate and accept/reject refrigerants regardless of source (i.e., new, reclaimed and/or repackaged) for use in new and existing refrigeration and air-conditioning products as required under 40 CFR part 82.

1.1.1 Intent. This standard is intended for the guidance of the industry including manufacturers, refrigerant reclaimers, repackagers, distributors, installers, servicemen, contractors and for consumers.

1.1.2 Review and Amendment. This standard is subject to review and amendment as the technology advances.
Section 2. Scope

2.1 Scope. This standard specifies acceptable levels of contaminants (purity requirements) for various fluorocarbon and other refrigerants regardless of source and lists acceptable test methods. These refrigerants are as referenced in the ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 34 with Addenda:

2.1.1 Single-Component Fluorocarbon Refrigerants: R-11, R-12, R-13, R-22, R-23, R-32, R-113, R-114, R-115, R-116, R-123, R-124, R-125, R-134a, R-141b, R-142b, R-143a, R-152a, R-218, R-227ea, R-236fa, R-245fa, R-1233zd(E), R-1234yf, R-1234ze(E);

2.1.2 Single Component Hydrocarbon Refrigerants: R-50, R-170, R-E170, R-290, R-600, R-600a, R-601, R-601a, R-610, R-1150, R-1270;

2.1.3 Carbon Dioxide Refrigerant: R-744;

2.1.4 Zeotropic Blend Refrigerants: R-401A, R-401B, R-402A, R-402B, R-403A, R-403B, R-404A, R-405A, R-406A, R-407A, R-407B, R-407C, R-407D, R-407E, R-407F, R-408A, R-409A, R-409B, R-410A, R-410B, R-411A, R-411B, R-412A, R-413A, R-414A, R-414B, R-415A, R-415B, R-416A, R-417A, R-417B, R-417C, R-418A, R-419A, R-419B, R-420A, R-421A, R-421B, R-422A, R-422B, R-422C, R-422D, R-422E, R-423A, R-424A, R-425A, R-426A, R-427A, R-428A, R-429A, R-430A, R-431A, R-434A, R-435A, R-437A, R-438A, R-439A, R-440A, R-442A, R-444A, R-444B, R-445A, R-446A, R-447A, R-448A, R-449A, R-450A;

2.1.5 Zeotropic Hydrocarbon Blend Refrigerants: R-432A, R-433A, R-433B, R-433C, R-436A, R-436B, R-441A, R-443A; and

2.1.6 Azeotropic Blend Refrigerants: R-500, R-502, R-503, R-507A, R-508A, R-508B, R-509A, R-510A, R-511A, and R-512A.
Section 3. Definitions

3.1 Definitions. All terms in this appendix will follow the definitions in § 82.152 unless otherwise defined in this appendix.

3.2 Shall, Should, Recommended, or It Is Recommended shall be interpreted as follows:

3.2.1 Shall. Where &#x201C;shall&#x201D; or &#x201C;shall not&#x201D; is used for a provision specified, that provision is mandatory if compliance with this appendix is claimed.

3.2.2 Should, Recommended, or It is Recommended is used to indicate provisions which are not mandatory but which are desirable as good practice.
Section 4. Characterization of Refrigerants and Contaminants

4.1 Characterization. Characterization of single component fluorocarbon (Table 1A) and zeotropic/azeotropic blend (Table 2A/3) refrigerants and contaminants are listed in the following general classifications:

4.1.1 Isomer content (see Table 1A)

4.1.2 Air and other non-condensables (see Tables 1A, 2A, 3)

4.1.3 Water (see Tables 1A, 2A, 3)

4.1.4 All other volatile impurities (see Tables 1A, 2A, 3)

4.1.5 High boiling residue (see Tables 1A, 2A, 3)

4.1.6 Halogenated unsaturated volatile impurities (see Table 1A)

4.1.7 Particulates/solids (see Tables 1A, 2A, 3)

4.1.8 Acidity (see Tables 1A, 2A, 3)

4.1.9 Chloride (see Tables 1A, 2A, 3)

4.2 Hydrocarbon Characterization. Characterization of hydrocarbon refrigerants (Tables 1B and 2B) and contaminants are listed in the following general classifications:

4.2.1 Nominal composition

4.2.2 Other allowable impurities

4.2.3 Air and other non-condensables

4.2.4 Sulfur odor

4.2.5 High boiling residue

4.2.6 Particulates/solids

4.2.7 Acidity

4.2.8 Water

4.2.9 All other volatile impurities

4.2.10 Total C3, C4, and C5 polyolefins

4.3 Carbon Dioxide Characterization. Characterization of carbon dioxide (Table 1C) and its contaminants are listed in the following general classifications:

4.3.1 Purity

4.3.2 Air and other non-condensables

4.3.3 Water

4.3.4 High boiling residue

4.3.5 Particulates/solids
Section 5. Sampling and Summary of Test Procedures

5.1 Referee Test. The referee test methods for the various contaminants are summarized in the following paragraphs. Detailed test procedures are included in 2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168). If alternative test methods are employed, the user must be able to demonstrate that they produce results at least equivalent to the specified referee test method.

5.2 Refrigerant Sampling

5.2.1 Sampling Precautions. Special precautions should be taken to ensure that representative samples are obtained for analysis. Sampling shall be done by qualified personnel following accepted sampling and safety procedures. Refrigerants with critical temperatures near or below ambient temperature cannot be reliably sampled for both liquid and vapor phase without special handling.

Note: Flammable refrigerants which are ASHRAE 34 class 2L, 2, or 3 present additional safety challenges and require additional measures for sampling safety procedures compared to nonflammable halocarbons documented in this standard.

5.2.2 Cylinder Preparation. Place a clean, empty sample cylinder with the valve open in an oven at 110 &#xB0;C (230 &#xB0;F) for one hour. Remove it from the oven while hot, immediately connect it to an evacuation system and evacuate to less than 56 kPa. Close the valve and allow it to cool. Weigh the empty cylinder.

5.2.3 Vapor Phase Sampling. A vapor phase sample shall be obtained for determining the non-condensables. The source temperature shall be measured and recorded at the time the sample is taken.

5.2.3.1 Special Handling for Low Critical Temperature Refrigerant. A vapor phase sample is required to determine non-condensables and volatile impurities, including other refrigerants. The vapor phase sample is obtained by regulating the sample container temperature to 5 K or more above the refrigerant critical temperature.

5.2.3.2 Handling for Liquid Refrigerants with Boiling Points Near or Above Room Temperature. Since R-11, R-113, R-123, R-141b, R-245fa, and R-1233zd(E) have normal boiling points near or above room temperature, non-condensable determination is not required for these refrigerants.

Note: Non-condensable gases, if present, will concentrate in the vapor phase of the refrigerant; care must be exercised to eliminate introduction of either air or liquid phase refrigerant during the sample transfer.

5.2.4 Liquid Phase Sampling. A liquid phase sample is required for all tests listed in this standard except the test for non-condensables.

5.2.4.1 Liquid Sampling. Accurate analysis requires that the sample cylinder, at ambient temperature, be filled to at least 60 percent by volume; however, under no circumstances should the cylinder be filled to more than 80 percent by volume. This can be accomplished by weighing the empty cylinder and then the cylinder with refrigerant. When the desired amount of refrigerant has been collected, close the valve(s) and immediately disconnect the sample cylinder.

Note: Care should be taken to ensure that all connections and transfer lines are dry and evacuated to avoid contaminating the sample.

Note: Low critical temperature refrigerants can have extremely high pressure and the sampling vessel, all connections, and transfer lines must be designed to handle high pressures.

5.2.4.2 Special Handling for Low Critical Temperature Refrigerant. A liquid phase sample is required for all testing except volatile impurities, including other refrigerants. The liquid phase sample is obtained by regulating the sample cylinder temperature to 2 &#xB0;C below the critical temperature of the refrigerant.

Note: If free water is present in the sample, cooling to below 0 &#xB0;C may result in the formation of ice. Clathrates may form at temperatures above 0 &#xB0;C with some fluorocarbon refrigerants.

5.2.4.3 Record Weight. Check the sample cylinder for leaks and record the gross weight.

5.3 Refrigerant Identification. The required method shall be gas chromatography (GC) as described in 2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168) with the corresponding gas chromatogram figures as illustrated in 2012 Appendix D to AHRI Standard 700-2014 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168). The chromatogram of the sample shall be compared to known standards.

5.3.2 Alternative Method. Determination of the boiling point and boiling point range is an acceptable alternative test method which can be used to characterize refrigerants. The test method shall be that described in section 4.4.3 of BB-F-1421B (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

5.3.3 Required Values. The required values for boiling point and boiling point range are given in Table 1A, Physical Properties of Single Component Refrigerants; Table 1B, Physical Properties of Zeotropic Blends (400 Series Refrigerants); and Table 1C, Physical Properties of Azeotropic Blends (500 Series Refrigerants).

5.4 Water Content.

5.4.1 Method. The Coulometric Karl Fischer Titration shall be the primary test method for determining the water content of refrigerants. This method is described in 2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168). This method can be used for refrigerants that are either a liquid or a gas at room temperature. For all refrigerants, the sample for water analysis shall be taken from the liquid phase of the container to be tested.

5.4.2 Limits. The value for water content shall be expressed in parts per million (ppm) by weight and shall not exceed the maximum specified in Tables 1A, 1B, 1C, 2A, 2B, and 3.

5.5 Conductivity. (Alternative to chloride and acidity tests).

5.5.1 Method. A refrigerant may be tested for conductivity as an indication of the presence of acids, metal chlorides, and any compound that ionizes in water. This alternative procedure is intended for use with new or reclaimed refrigerants, however, significant amounts of oil can interfere with the test results.

5.5.2 Limits. The value for conductivity shall be converted to and expressed in ppm by weight calculated as HCl and shall be compared with the maximum acidity value specified (see in Tables 1A, 1B, 1C, 2A, 2B, and 3). If the conductivity is above this amount, then the chloride and acidity tests shall be conducted. If the conductivity is not greater than this amount, then the chloride and acidity tests may be omitted.

5.6 Chloride. The refrigerant shall be tested for chloride as an indication of the presence of hydrochloric acid and/or metal chlorides. The referee procedure is intended for use with new or reclaimed halogenated refrigerants; however, high boiling residue in excess of the amounts in Tables 1A, 1B, 1C, 2A, 2B, and 3 can interfere with the test results.

5.6.1 Method. The test method shall be that described in 2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168). The test will show noticeable turbidity at chloride levels of about 3 ppm or greater by weight.

5.5.2 Limits. The results of the test shall not exhibit any sign of turbidity. Report the results as &#x201C;pass&#x201D; or &#x201C;fail.&#x201D;

5.7 Acidity.

5.7.1 Method. The acidity test uses the titration principle to detect any compound that is soluble in water and ionizes as an acid. The test method shall be that described in 2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168). This test may not be suitable for determination of high molecular weight organic acids; however these acids will be found in the high boiling residue test outlined in Section 5.8. The test requires a 50 to 60 gram sample and has a detection limit of 0.1 ppm by weight calculated as HCl.

5.7.2 Limits. The value for acidity shall be expressed in ppm by weight as HCl and shall not exceed the limits in Tables 1A, 1B, 2A, 2B, and 3.

5.8 High Boiling Residue.

5.8.1 Method. High boiling residue shall be determined by either volume or weight. The volume method measures the residue from a standard volume of refrigerant after evaporation. The gravimetric method is described in 2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168). Oils and/or organic acids will be captured by these methods.

5.8.2 Limits. The value for high boiling residue shall be expressed as a percentage by volume or weight and shall not exceed the maximum percent specified in Tables 1A, 1B, 1C, 2A, 2B, and 3.

5.9 Particulates and Solids.

5.9.1 Method. A measured amount of sample shall be placed in a Goetz bulb under controlled temperature conditions. The particulates/solids shall be determined by visual examination of the Goetz bulb prior to the evaporation of refrigerant. For details of this test method, refer to Part 3 of 2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

Note: R-744 will partially sublimate when measuring a known amount of liquid sample into the dry Goetz bulb and the solid R-744 will interfere with the visual examination of particulates/solids. Determining the particulates/solids shall be completed by visual examination of the Goetz bulb after the evaporation of the refrigerant.

5.9.2 Limits. Visual presence of dirt, rust, or other particulate contamination is reported as &#x201C;fail.&#x201D;

5.10 Non-Condensables.

5.10.1 Method. A vapor phase sample shall be used for determination of non-condensables. Non-condensable gases consist primarily of air accumulated in the vapor phase of refrigerants where the solubility of air in the refrigerant liquid phase is extremely low and air is not significant as a liquid phase contaminant. The presence of non-condensable gases may reflect poor quality control in transferring refrigerants to storage tanks and cylinders.

The test method shall be gas chromatography with a thermal conductivity detector as described in 2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

5.10.2 Limits. The maximum level of non-condensables in the vapor phase of a test sample shall not exceed the maximum at 25 &#xB0;C as shown in Tables 1A, 1B, 1C, 2A, 2B, and 3.

5.11 All Other Volatile Impurities and/or Other Refrigerants.

5.11.1 Method. The amount of volatile impurities including other refrigerants in the subject refrigerant shall be determined by gas chromatography as described in 2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

5.11.2 Limits. The test sample shall not contain more than 0.5 percent by weight of volatile impurities including other refrigerants as shown in Tables 1A, 1B, 1C, 2A, 2B and 3.

5.12 Total C3, C4 and C5 Polyolefins in Hydrocarbon Refrigerants.

5.12.1 Method. The amount of polyolefin impurities in the hydrocarbon shall be determined by gas chromatography as described in GPA Standard 2177-13 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

5.12.2 Limits. The test sample shall not contain more than 0.05 percent by weight in the hydrocarbon sample as shown in Tables 1B and 2B. Report the results as &#x201C;pass&#x201D; or &#x201C;fail.&#x201D;

5.13 Sulfur Odor in Hydrocarbon Refrigerants.

5.13.1 Method. The amount of sulfur containing compounds or other compounds with an odor shall be determined by ASTM D1296-01 (Reapproved 2012) (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

5.13.2 Limits. The test sample paper shall not emit a residual sulfur odor as shown in Tables 1B and 2B.
Section 6. Reporting Procedure

6.1 Reporting Procedure. The source (manufacturer, reclaimer, or repackager) of the packaged refrigerant shall be identified. The refrigerant shall be identified by its accepted refrigerant number and/or its chemical name. Maximum allowable levels of contaminants are shown in Tables 1A, 1B, 1C, 2A, 2B, and 3. Test results shall be tabulated in a similar manner.

Section 7.0 References—Normative

Listed here are all standards, handbooks, and other publications essential to the formation and implementation of the standard. All references in this appendix are considered as part of this standard.
ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 34-2013, Designation and Safety Classification of Refrigerants, with Addenda, American National Standards Institute/American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers.

2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014, 2008 Appendix C for Analytical Procedures for AHRI Standard 700-2014—Normative, copyright 2008 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

ASTM D1296-01 (Reapproved 2012), Standard Test Method for Odor of Volatile Solvents and Diluents, approved July 1, 2012, (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

BB-F-1421B, Federal Specification for &#x201C;Fluorocarbon Refrigerants,&#x201D; dated March 5, 1982, (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

GPA Standard 2177-13, Analysis of Natural Gas Liquid Mixtures Containing Nitrogen and Carbon Dioxide by Gas Chromatography, Revised, copyright 2013, (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

REFPROP Reference Fluid Thermodynamic and Transport Properties NIST Standard Reference Database 23 version 9.1, 2013, U.S. Department of Commerce, Technology Administration, National Institute of Standards and Technology.

Section 8.0 References—Informative

Listed here are standards, handbooks, and other publications which may provide useful information and background but are not considered essential.
2012 Appendix D to AHRI Standard 700-2014, 2012 Appendix D for Gas Chromatograms for AHRI Standard 700-2014—Informative, copyright 2012, (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

[81 FR 82365, Nov. 18, 2016]

### Appendix A1 to Subpart F of Part 82—Generic Maximum Contaminant Levels

Contaminant
Reporting units

Air and Other Non-condensables
1.5% by volume @ 25 &#xB0;C (N/A for refrigerants used in low-pressure appliances 1).

Water
10 ppm by weight 20 ppm by weight (for refrigerants used in low-pressure appliances 1).

Other Impurities Including Refrigerant
0.50% by weight.

High boiling residue
0.01% by volume.

Particulates/solids
visually clean to pass.

Acidity
1.0 ppm by weight.

Chlorides (chloride level for pass/fail is 3ppm)
No visible turbidity.

1 Low-pressure appliances means an appliance that uses a refrigerant with a liquid phase saturation pressure below 45 psia at 104 &#xB0;F.

Blend Compositions (Where Applicable)

Nominalcomposition(by weight%)
Allowablecomposition(by weight%)

Component constitutes 25% or more
&#xB1;2.0

Component constitutes less than 25% but greater than 10%
&#xB1;1.0

Component constitutes less than or equal to 10%
&#xB1;0.5

[69 FR 11988, Mar. 12, 2004]

### Appendix B1 to Subpart F of Part 82—Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling and/or Reclaim Equipment

This appendix is based on the Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute Standard 740-1993.
Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment

Section 1. Purpose

1.1 Purpose. The purpose of this standard is to establish methods of testing for rating and evaluating the performance of refrigerant recovery, and/or recycling equipment, and general equipment requirements (herein referred to as &#x201C;equipment&#x201D;) for containment or purity levels, capacity, speed, and purge loss to minimize emission into the atmosphere of designated refrigerants.

1.1.1 This standard is intended for the guidance of the industry, including manufacturers, refrigerant reclaimers, repackers, distributors, installers, servicemen, contractors and for consumers.

1.1.2 This standard is not intended to be used as a guide in defining maximum levels of contaminants in recycled or reclaimed refrigerants used in various applications.

1.2 Review and Amendment. This standard is subject to review and amendment as the technology advances.
Section 2. Scope

2.1 Scope. This standard defines general equipment requirements and the test apparatus, test mixtures, sampling and analysis techniques that will be used to determine the performance of recovery and/or recycling equipment for various refrigerants including R11, R12, R13, R22, R113, R114, R123, R134a, R500, R502, and R503, as referenced in the ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 34-1992, &#x201C;Number Designation of Refrigerants&#x201D; (American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers, Inc.).
Section 3. Definitions

3.1 Recovered refrigerant. Refrigerant that has been removed from a system for the purpose of storage, recycling, reclamation or transportation.

3.2 Recover. Reference 40 CFR 82.152.

3.3 Recycle. Reference 40 CFR 82.152.

3.4 Reclaim. Reference 40 CFR 82.152.

3.5 Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Sample. A mixture of new and/or reclaimed refrigerant and specified quantities of identified contaminants which are representative of field obtained, used refrigerant samples and which constitute the mixture to be processed by the equipment under test.

3.6 Push/Pull Method. The push/pull refrigerant recovery method is defined as the process of transferring liquid refrigerant from a refrigeration system to a receiving vessel by lowering the pressure in the vessel and raising the pressure in the system, and by connecting a separate line between the system liquid port and the receiving vessel.

3.7 Recycle Rate. The amount of refrigerant processed (in pounds) divided by the time elapsed in the recycling mode in pounds per minute. For equipment which uses a separate recycling sequence, the recycle rate does not include the recovery rate (or elapsed time). For equipment which does not use a separate recycling sequence, the recycle rate is a maximum rate based solely on the higher of the liquid or vapor recovery rate, by which the rated contaminant levels can be achieved.

3.8 Equipment Classification.

3.8.1 Self Contained Equipment. A refrigerant recovery or recycling system which is capable of refrigerant extraction without the assistance of components contained within an air conditioning or refrigeration system.

3.8.2 System Dependent Equipment. Refrigerant recovery equipment which requires for its operation the assistance of components contained in an air conditioning or refrigeration system.

3.9 &#x201C;Shall&#x201D;, &#x201C;Should&#x201D;, &#x201C;Recommended&#x201D; or &#x201C;It is Recommended&#x201D;, &#x201C;Shall&#x201D; &#x201C;Should&#x201D;, &#x201C;recommended&#x201D;, or &#x201C;it is recommended&#x201D; shall be interpreted as follows:

3.9.1 Shall. Where &#x201C;shall&#x201D; or &#x201C;shall not&#x201D; is used for a provision specified, that provision is mandatory if compliance with the standard is claimed.

3.9.2 Should, Recommended, or It is Recommended, &#x201C;Should&#x201D;, &#x201C;recommended&#x201D;, is used to indicate provisions which are not mandatory but which are desirable as good practice.
Section 4. General Equipment Requirements

4.1 The equipment manufacturer shall provide operating instructions, necessary maintenance procedures, and source information for replacement parts and repair.

4.2 The equipment shall indicate when any filter/drier(s) needs replacement. This requirement can be met by use of a moisture transducer and indicator light, by use of a sight glass/moisture indicator, or by some measurement of the amount of refrigerant processed such as a flow meter or hour meter. Written instructions such as &#x201C;to change the filter every 400 pounds, or every 30 days&#x201D; shall not be acceptable except for equipment in large systems where the Liquid Recovery Rate is greater than 25 lbs/min [11.3 Kg/min] where the filter/drier(s) would be changed for every job.

4.3 The equipment shall either automatically purge non-condensables if the rated level is exceeded or alert the operator that the non-condensable level has been exceeded. While air purge processes are subject to the requirements of this section, there is no specific requirement to include an air purge process for &#x201C;recycle&#x201D; equipment.

4.4 The equipment's refrigerant loss due to non-condensable purging shall not be exceeded 5% by weight of total recovered refrigerant. (See Section 9.4)

4.5 Internal hose assemblies shall not exceed a permeation rate of 12 pounds mass per square foot [5.8 g/cm
2] of internal surface per year at a temperature of 120 F [48.8 &#xB0;C] for any designated refrigerant.

4.6 The equipment shall be evaluated at 75 F [24 &#xB0;C] per 7.1. Normal operating conditions range from 50 &#xB0;F to 104 F [10 &#xB0;C to 40 &#xB0;C].

4.7 Exemptions:

4.7.1 Equpment intended for recovery only shall be exempt from sections 4.2 and 4.3.

Table 1—Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Samples

R11
R12
R13
R22
R113
R114
R123
R134a
R500
R502
R503

Moisture content:

PPM by weight of pure refrigerant
100
80
30
200
100
85
100
200
200
200
30

Particulate content:

PPM by weight of pure refrigerant characterized by 1
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
80

Acid content:

PPM by weight of pure refrigerant—(mg KOH per kg refrig.) characterized by 2
500
100
NA
500
400
200
500
100
100
100
NA

Mineral oil content:

% by weight of pure refrigerant
20
5
NA
5
20
20
20
5
5
5
NA

Viscosity (SUS)
300
150

300
300
300
300
150
150
150

Non condensable gases air content % volume3 >
NA
3
3
3
NA
3
3
3
3
3
3

1 Particulate content shall consist of inert materials and shall comply with particulate requirements in ASHRAE Standard 63.2, &#x201C;Method of Testing of Filtration Capacity of Refrigerant Liquid Line Filters and Filter Driers.&#x201D;
2 Acid consists of 60% oleic acid and 40% hydrochloric acid on a total number basis.
3 Synthetic ester based oil.

Section 5. Contaminated Refrigerants

5.1 The standard contaminated refrigerant sample shall have the characteristics specified in Table 1, except as provided in 5.2

5.2 Recovery equipment not rated for any specific contaminant can be tested with new or reclaimed refrigerant.
Section 6. Test Apparatus

6.1 Self Contained Equipment Test Apparatus. The apparatus as shown in Figure 1 consists of a 3 cubic foot [0.085 m
3] mixing chamber with a conical-shaped bottom, although a larger mixing chamber is permissible. The size of the mixing chamber depends upon the size of the equipment. The outlet at the bottom of the cone and all restrictions and valves for liquid and vapor refrigerant lines in the test apparatus shall be a minimum of 0.375 in. [9.5 mm] inside diameter or equivalent. The minimum inside diameter for large equipment for use on chillers shall be 1.5 in. [38 mm.]. The mixing chamber shall contain various ports for receiving liquid refrigerant, oil, and contaminants. A recirculating line connected from the bottom outlet through a recirculating pump and then to a top vapor port shall be provided for stirring of the mixture. Isolation valves may be required for the pump. Alternative stirring means may be used if demonstrated to be equally effective.

6.1.1 For liquid refrigerant feed, the liquid valve is opened. For vapor refrigerant feed, the vapor valve is opened and refrigerant passes through an evaporator coil. Flow is controlled by a thermostatic expansion valve to create 5 F [3 &#xB0;C] superheat at an evaporator temperature of 70 F &#xB1;3 F[21 &#xB0;C&#xB1;2&#xB0;]. The evaporator coil or equivalent evaporator means shall be either sized large enough for the largest system or be sized for each system.

6.1.2 An alternative method for vapor refrigerant feed is to pass through a boiler and then an automatic pressure regulating valve set at refrigerant saturation pressure at 75 F &#xB1;3 F [24 &#xB0;C &#xB1;2 &#xB0;C].

6.2 System Dependent Equipment Test Apparatus. This test apparatus is to be used for final recovery vacuum rating of all system dependent equipment.

6.2.1 The test apparatus shown in Figure 2 consists of a complete refrigeration system. The manufacturer shall identify the refrigerants to be tested. The test apparatus can be modified to facilitate operation or testing of the system dependent equipment if the modifications to the apparatus are specifically described within the manufacturer's literature. (See Figure 2.) A
1/4 inch [6.3 mm] balance line shall be connected across the test apparatus between the high and low pressure sides, with an isolation valve located at the connection to the compressor high side. A
1/4 inch [6.3 mm] access port with a valve core shall be located in the balance line for the purpose of measuring final recovery vacuum at the conclusion of the test.

Section 7. Performance Testing

7.1 Contaminant removal and performance testing shall be conducted at 75 F &#xB1;2 F [23.9 &#xB0;C &#xB1;1.1 &#xB0;C].

7.1.1 The equipment shall be prepared for operation per the instruction manual.

7.1.2 The contaminated sample batch shall consist of not less than the sum of the amounts required to complete steps 7.1.2.2 and 7.1.2.3 below.

7.1.2.1 A liquid sample shall be drawn from the mixing chamber prior to starting the test to assure quality control of the mixing process.

7.1.2.2 Vapor refrigerant feed testing, if elected, shall normally be processed first. After the equipment reaches stabilized conditions of condensing temperature and/or storage tank pressure, the vapor feed recovery rate shall be measured. One method is to start measuring the vapor refrigerant recovery rate when 85% of refrigerant remains in the mixing chamber and continue for a period of time sufficient to achieve the accuracy in 9.2. If liquid feed is not elected, complete Step 7.1.2.4.

7.1.2.3 Liquid refrigerant feed testing, if elected, shall be processed next. After the equipment reaches stabilized conditions, the liquid feed recovery rate shall be measured. One method is to wait 2 minutes after starting liquid feed and then measure the liquid refrigerant recovery rate for a period of time sufficient to achieve the accuracy in 9.1. Continue liquid recovery operation as called for in 7.1.2.4.

7.1.2.4 Continue recovery operation until all liquid is removed from the mixing chamber and vapor is removed to the point where the equipment shuts down per automatic means or is manually stopped per the operating instructions.

7.1.2.5 After collecting the first contaminated refrigerant sample batch, the liquid and vapor value of the apparatus shall be closed and the mixing chamber pressure recorded after 1 minute as required in 9.5. After preparing a second contaminated refrigerant sample batch, continue recovery until the storage container reaches 80% liquid fill level. After recycling and measuring the recycle rate per section 7.1.3, set this container aside for the vapor sample in 8.2.2.

7.1.2.6 Interruptions in equipment operations as called for in instruction manual are allowable.

7.1.3 Recycle as called for in equipment operating instructions. Determine recycle rate by appropriate means as required in 9.3.

7.1.4 Repeat steps 7.1.2, 7.1.2.4, and 7.1.3 with contaminated refrigerant sample until equipment indicator(s) show need to change filter(s). It will not be necessary to repeat the recycle rate determination in 7.1.3.

7.1.4.1 For equipment with a multiple pass recirculating filter system, analyze the contents of the previous storage container.

7.1.4.2 For equipment with a single pass filter system, analyze the contents of the current storage container.

7.1.5 Refrigerant loss due to the equipment's non-condensable gas purge shall be determined by appropriate means. (See Section 9.4.)

7.2 System Dependent Equipment. This procedure shall be used for vacuum rating of all system dependent equipment. Liquid refrigerant recovery rate, vapor refrigerant recovery rate, and recycle rate are not tested on system dependent systems.

7.2.1 The apparatus operation and testing shall be conducted at 75 F &#xB1;2 F. [23.9 &#xB0;C. &#xB1;/1.1. &#xB0;C.].

7.2.2 The apparatus shall be charged with refrigerant per its system design specifications.

7.2.3 For measurement of final recovery vacuum as required in 9.5, first shut the balance line isolation valve and wait 1 minute for pressure to balance. Then connect and operate the recovery system per manufacturers recommendations. When the evacuation is completed, open the balance line isolation valve and measure the pressure in the balance line.
Section 8. Sampling and Chemical Analysis Methods

8.1 The referee test methods for the various contaminants are summarized in the following paragraphs. Detailed test procedures are included in Appendix A &#x201C;Test Procedures for ARI STD 700.&#x201D; If alternate test methods are employed, the user must be able to demonstrate that they produce results equivalent to the specified referee method.

8.2 Refrigerant Sampling.

8.2.1 Sampling Precautions. Special precautions should be taken to assure that representative samples are obtained for analysis. Sampling shall be done by trained laboratory personnel following accepted sampling and safety procedures.

8.2.2 Gas Phase Sample. A gas phase sample shall be obtained for determining the non-condensables. Since non-condensable gases, if present, will concentrate in the vapor phase of the refrigerant, care must be exercised to eliminate introduction of air during the sample transfer. Purging is not and acceptable procedure for a gas phase sample since it may introduce a foreign product. Since R11, R113 and R123 have normal boiling points at or above room temperature, noncondensable determination is not required for these refrigerants.

8.2.2.1 The sample cylinder shall be connected to an evacuated gas sampling bulb by means of a manifold. The manifold should have a valve arrangement that facilitates evacuation of all connecting tubing leading to the sampling bulb.

8.2.2.2 After the manifold has been evacuated, close the valve to the pump and open the valve on the system. Allow the pressure to equilibrate and close valves.

8.2.3 Liquid Phase Sample. A liquid phase sample is required for all tests listed in this standard, except the test for non-condensables.

8.2.3.1 Place an empty sample cylinder with the valve open in an oven at 230 F [110 &#xB0;C] for one hour. Remove it from the oven while hot, immediately connect to an evacuation system and evacuate to less than 1mm. mercury (1000 microns). Close the valve and allow it to cool.

8.2.3.2 The valve and lines from the unit to be sampled shall be clean and dry. Connect the line to the sample cylinder loosely. Purge through the loose connection. Make the connection tight at the end of the purge period. Take the sample as a liquid by chilling the sample cylinder slightly. Accurate analysis requires that the sample container be filled to at least 60% by volume; however under no circumstances should the cylinder be filled to more than 80% by volume. This can be accomplished by weighing the empty cylinder and then the cylinder with refrigerant. When the desired amount of refrigerant has been collected, close the valve(s) and disconnect the sample cylinder immediately.

8.2.3.3 Check the sample cylinder for leaks and record the gross weight.

8.3 Water Content.

8.3.1. The Coulometric Karl Fischer Titration shall be the primary test method for determining the water content of refrigerants. This method is described in Appendix A. This method can be used for refrigerants that are either a liquid or a gas at room temperature, including Refrigerants 11 and 13. For all refrigerants, the sample for water analysis shall be taken from the liquid phase of the container to be tested. Proper operation of the analytical method requires special equipment and an experienced operator. The precision of the results is excellent if proper sampling and handling procedures are followed. Refrigerants containing a colored dye can be successfully analyzed for water using this method.

8.3.2 The Karl Fischer Test Method is an acceptable alternative test method for determining the water content of refrigerants. This method is described in ASTM Standard for &#x201C;Water in gases Using Karl Fisher Reagent&#x201D; E700-79, reapproved 1984 (American Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia, PA).

8.3.3 Report the moisture level in parts per million by weight if a sample is required.

8.4 Chloride. The refrigerant shall be tested for chlorides as an indication of the presence of hydrochloric or similar acids. The recommended procedure is intended for use with new or reclaimed refrigerants. Significant amounts of oil may interfere with the results by indicating a failure in the absence of chlorides.

8.4.1 The test method shall be that described in Appendix A &#x201C;Test Procedures for ARI-700.&#x201D; The test will show noticeable turbidity at equivalent chloride levels of about 3 ppm by weight or higher.

8.4.2 The results of the test shall not exhibit any sign of turbity. Report results as &#x201C;pass&#x201D; or &#x201C;fail.&#x201D;

8.5 Acidity.

8.5.1 The acidity test uses the titration principle to detect any compound that is highly soluble in water and ionizes as an acid. The test method shall be that described in Appendix A. &#x201C;Test Procedures for ARI-700.&#x201D; The test may not be suitable for determination of high molecular weight organic acids; however these acids will be found in the high boiling residue test outlined in Section 5.7. The test requires about a 100 to 120 gram sample and has a low detection limit of 0.1 ppm by weight as HC1.

8.6 High Boiling Residue.

8.6.1 High boiling residue will be determined by measuring the residue of a standard volume of refrigerant after evaporation. The refrigerant sample shall be evaporated at room temperature or a temperature 50 F [10&#xB0;.0C], above the boiling point of the sample using a Goetz tube as specified in Appendix A &#x201C;Test Procedures for ARI-700.&#x201D; Oils and or organic acids will be captured by this method.

8.6.2 The value for high boiling residue shall be expressed as a percentage by volume.

8.7 Particulates/Solids.

8.7.1 A measured amount of sample is evaporated from a Goetz bulb under controlled temperature conditions. The particulates/solids shall be determined by visual examination of the empty Goetz bulb after the sample has evaporated completely. Presence of dirt, rust or other particulate contamination is reported a &#x201C;fail.&#x201D; For details of this test method, refer to Appendix B &#x201C;Test Procedures for ARI-700.&#x201D;

8.8 Non-Condensables

8.8.1 A vapor phase sample shall be used for determination of non-condensables. Non-condensable gases consist primarily of air accumulated in the vapor phase of refrigerant containing tanks. The solubility of air in the refrigerants liquid phase is extremely low and air is not significant as a liquid phase contaminant. The presence of non-condensable gases may reflect poor quality control in transferring refrigerants to storage tanks and cylinders.

8.8.2 The test method shall be gas chromatography with a thermal conductivity detector as described in Appendix A &#x201C;Test Procedures for ARI-700.&#x201D;

8.8.2.1 The Federal Specification for &#x201C;Fluorocarbon Refrigerants,&#x201D; BB-F-1421B, dated March 5, 1992, section 4.4.2 (perchloroethylene method) is an acceptable alternate test method.

8.8.3 Report the level of non-condensable as percent by volume.
Section 9. Performance Calculation and Rating

9.1 The liquid refrigerant recovery rate shall be expressed in pounds per minute [kg/min] and measured by weight change at the mixing chamber (See Figure 1) divided by elapsed time to an accuracy within .02 lbs/min. [.009 kg/min]. Ratings using the Push/Pull method shall be identified &#x201C;Push/Pull&#x201D;. Equipment may be rated by both methods.

9.2 The vapor refrigerant recovery rate shall be expressed in pounds per minute [kg/min] and measured by weight change at the mixing chamber (See Figure 1) divided by elapsed time to an accuracy within .02 lbs/min. [.0.009 kg/min].

9.3 The recycle rate is defined in 3.7 and expressed in pounds per minute [kg/min] of flow and shall be per ASHRAE 41.7-84 &#x201C;Procedure For Fluid Measurement Of Gases&#x201D; or ASHRAE 41.8-89 &#x201C;Standard Method of Flow of Fluids—Liquids.&#x201D;

9.3.1 For equipment using multipass recycling or a separate sequence, the recycle rate shall be determined by dividing the net weight W of the refrigerant to be recycled by the actual time T required to recycle the refrigerant. Any set-up or operator interruptions shall not be included in the time T. The accuracy of the recycle rate shall be within .02 lbs/min. [.009 kg/min].

9.3.2 If no separate recycling sequence is used, the recycle rate shall be the higher of the vapor refrigerant recovery rate or the liquid refrigerant recovery rate. The recycle rate shall match a process which leads to contaminant levels in 9.6. Specifically, a recovery rate determined from bypassing a contaminant removal device cannot be used as a recycle rate when the contaminant levels in 9.6 are determined by passing the refrigerant through the containment removal device.

9.4 Refrigerant loss due to non-condensable purging shall be less than 5%. This rating shall be expressed as &#x201C;passed&#x201D; if less than 5%.

This calculation will be based upon net loss of non-condensables and refrigerant due to the purge divided by the initial net content. The net loss shall be determined by weighing before and after the purge, by collecting purged gases, or an equivalent method.

9.5 The final recovery vacuum shall be the mixing chamber pressure called for in 7.1.2.5 expressed in inches of mercury vacuum, [mm Hg or kP]. The accuracy of the measurement shall be within &#xB1;.1 inch [&#xB1;2.5mm] of Hg and rounding down to the nearest whole number.

9.6 The contaminant levels remaining after testing shall be published as follows:
Moisture content, PPM by weight

Chloride ions, Pass/Fail

Acidity, PPM by weight

High boiling residue, percentage by volume

Particulate/solid, Pass/Fail

Non-condensables, % by volume

9.7 Product Literature: Except as provided under product labelling in Section 11. performance ratings per 9.1, 9.2, 9.3, and 9.5 must be grouped together and shown for all listed refrigerants (11.2) subject to limitations of 9.8. Wherever any contaminant levels per 9.6 are rated, all ratings in 9.6 must be shown for all listed refrigerants subject to limitations of 9.8. The type of equipment in 11.1 must be included with either grouping. Optional ratings in 9.8 need not be shown.

9.8 Ratings shall include all of the parameters for each designed refrigerant in 11.2 as shown in Tables 2 and 3.

Table 2—Performance

Parameter/type of equipment
Recovery
Recovery/ recycle
Recycle
System dependent equipment

Liquid refrigerant recovery rate
(2)
(2)
N/A
N/A

Vapor refrigerant recovery rate
(2)
(2)
N/A
N/A

Final recovery vacuum
(1)
(1)
N/A
(1)

Recycle rate
N/A
(1)
(1)
N/A

Refrigerant loss due to non-condensable purging
(3)
(1)
(1)
N/A

1 Mandatory rating.
2 For a recovery or recovery/recycle unit, one must rate for either liquid feed only or vapor feed only or can rate for both. If rating only the one, the other shall be indicated by &#x201C;N/A.&#x201D;
3 For Recovery Equipment, these parameters are optional. If not rated, use N/A.

Table 3—Contaminants

Contaminant/type of equipment
Recovery
Recovery/recycle
Recycle
System dependent equipment

Moisture content
(*)
x
x
NA.

Chloride ions
(*)
x
x
NA.

Acidity
(*)
x
x
NA.

High boiling residue
(*)
x
x
NA.

Particulates
(*)
x
x
NA.

Non-condensables
(*)
x
x
NA.

* For Recovery Equipment, these parameters are optional. If not rated, use N/A.
x Mandatory rating.

Section 10. Tolerances

10.1 Any equipment tested shall produce contaminant levels not higher than the published ratings. The liquid refrigerant recovery rate, vapor refrigerant recovery rate, final recovery vacuum and recycle rate shall not be less than the published ratings.
Section 11. Product Labelling

11.1 Type of equipment. The type of equipment shall be as listed:
11.1.1 Recovery only

11.1.2 System Dependent Recovery

11.1.3 Recovery/Recycle

11.1.4 Recycle only

11.2 Designated refrigerants and the following as applicable for each:
11.2.1 Liquid Recovery Rate

11.2.2 Vapor Recovery Rate

11.2.3 Final Recovery Vacuum

11.2.4 Recycle Rate

11.3 The nameplate shall also conform to the labeling requirements established for certified recycling and recovery equipment established at 40 CFR 82.158(h).
Attachment to Appendix B1

Particulate Used in Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Sample.
1. Particulate Specification

1.1 The particulate material pm will be a blend of 50% coarse air cleaner dust as received, and 50% retained on a 200-mesh screen. The coarse air cleaner dust is available from: AC Spark Plug Division, General Motors Corporation, Flint, Michigan.
1.2 Preparation of Particulate Materials

To prepare the blend of contaminant, first wet screen a quantity of coarse air cleaner dust on a 200-mesh screen (particle retention 74 pm). This is done by placing a portion of the dust on a 200-mesh screen and running water through the screen while stirring the dust with the fingers. The fine contaminant particles passing through the screen are discarded. The +200 mesh particles collected on the screen are removed and dried for one hour at 230 F [110 &#xB0;C]. The blend of standard contaminant is prepared by mixing 50% by weight of coarse air cleaner dust as received after drying for one hour at 230 F [110 &#xB0;C] with 50% by weight of the +200 mesh screened dust.

1.3 The coarse air cleaner dust as received and the blend used as the standard contaminant have the following approximate particle size analysis: Wt. % in various size ranges, pm.

Size range
As received
Blend

0-5
12
6

5-10
12
6

10-20
14
7

20-40
23
11

40-80
30
32

80-200
9
38

[58 FR 28712, May 14, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 42960, Aug. 19, 1994. Redesignated and amended at 68 FR 43815, July 24, 2003]

### Appendix B2 to Subpart F of Part 82—Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling, and/or Reclaim Equipment

This appendix is based on the Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute Standard 740-1995.
Section 1. Purpose

1.1 Purpose. The purpose of this standard is to establish methods of testing for rating and evaluating the performance of refrigerant recovery, and/or recycling equipment and general equipment requirements (herein referred to as &#x201C;equipment&#x201D;) for contaminant or purity levels, capacity, speed and purge loss to minimize emission into the atmosphere of designated refrigerants.
Section 2. Scope

2.1 Scope. This standard applies to equipment for recovering and/or recycling single refrigerants, azeotropics, zeotropic blends, and their normal contaminants from refrigerant systems. This standard defines the test apparatus, test gas mixtures, sampling procedures and analytical techniques that will be used to determine the performance of refrigerant recovery and/or recycling equipment (hereinafter, &#x201C;equipment&#x201D;).
Section 3. Definitions

3.1 Definitions. All terms in this appendix will follow the definitions in § 82.152 unless otherwise defined in this appendix.

3.2 Clearing Refrigerant. Procedures used to remove trapped refrigerant from equipment before switching from one refrigerant to another.

3.3 High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate. For equipment having at least one designated refrigerant (see 11.2) with a boiling point in the range of &#x2212;50 to +10 &#xB0;C, the rate will be measured for R-22, or the lowest boiling point refrigerant if R-22 is not a designated refrigerant.

3.4 Published Ratings. A statement of the assigned values of those performance characteristics, under stated rating conditions, by which a unit may be chosen to fit its application. These values apply to all units of like nominal size and type (identification) produced by the same manufacturer. As used herein, the term &#x201C;published rating&#x201D; includes the rating of all performance characteristics shown on the unit or published in specifications, advertising or other literature controlled by the manufacturer, at stated rating conditions.

3.5 Push/Pull Method. The push/pull refrigerant recovery method is defined as the process of transferring liquid refrigerant from a refrigeration system to a receiving vessel by lowering the pressure in the vessel and raising the pressure in the system, and by connecting a separate line between the system liquid port and the receiving vessel.

3.6 Recycle Flow Rate. The amount of refrigerant processed divided by the time elapsed in the recycling mode. For equipment which uses a separate recycling sequence, the recycle rate does not include the recovery rate (or elapsed time). For equipment which does not use a separate recycling sequence, the recycle rate is a rate based solely on the higher of the liquid or vapor recovery rate, by which the contaminant levels were measured.

3.7 Residual Trapped Refrigerant. Refrigerant remaining in equipment after clearing.

3.8 Shall, Should, Recommended or It Is Recommended shall be interpreted as follows:

3.8.1 Shall. Where &#x201C;shall&#x201D; or &#x201C;shall not&#x201D; is used for a provision specified, that provision is mandatory if compliance with this appendix is claimed.

3.8.2 Should, Recommended or It Is Recommended is used to indicate provisions which are not mandatory but which are desirable as good practice.

3.9 Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Sample. A mixture of new or reclaimed refrigerant and specified quantities of identified contaminants which constitute the mixture to be processed by the equipment under test. These contaminant levels are expected only from severe service conditions.

3.10 Trapped Refrigerant. The amount of refrigerant remaining in the equipment after the recovery or recovery/recycling operation but before clearing.

3.11 Vapor Recovery Rate. The average rate that refrigerant is withdrawn from the mixing chamber between two pressures as vapor recovery rate is changing pressure and temperature starting at saturated conditions either 24 &#xB0;C or at the boiling point 100 kPa (abs), whichever is higher. The final pressure condition is 10% of the initial pressure, but not lower than the equipment final recovery vacuum and not higher than 100 kPa (abs).
Section 4. General Equipment Requirements

4.1 Equipment Information. The equipment manufacturer shall provide operating instructions, necessary maintenance procedures and source information for replacement parts and repair.

4.2 Filter Replacement. The equipment shall indicate when any filter/drier(s) needs replacement. This requirement can be met by use of a moisture transducer and indicator light, by use of a sight glass/moisture indicator or by some measurement of the amount of refrigerant processed such as a flow meter or hour meter. Written instructions such as &#x201C;to change the filter every 181 kg, or every 30 days&#x201D; shall not be acceptable except for equipment in large systems where the liquid recovery rate is greater than 11.3 kg/min where the filter/drier(s) would be changed for every job.

4.3 Purge of Non-Condensable. If non-condensables are purged, the equipment shall either automatically purge non-condensables or provide indicating means to guide the purge process.

4.4 Purge Loss. The total refrigerant loss due to purging non-condensables, draining oil and clearing refrigerant (see 9.5) shall be less than 3% (by weight) of total processed refrigerant.

4.5 Permeation Rate. High pressure hose assemblies
5/8 in. [16 mm] nominal and smaller shall not exceed a permeation rate of 3.9 g/cm
2/yr (internal surface) at a temperature of 48.8 &#xB0;C. Hose assemblies that UL recognized as having passed ANSI/UL 1963 requirements shall be accepted without testing. See 7.1.4.

4.6 Clearing Trapped Refrigerant. For equipment rated for more than one refrigerant, the manufacturer shall provide a method and instructions which will accomplish connections and clearing within 15 minutes. Special equipment, other than a vacuum pump or manifold gauge set shall be furnished. The clearing procedure shall not rely upon the storage cylinder below saturated pressure conditions at ambient temperature.

4.7 Temperature. The equipment shall be evaluated at 24 &#xB0;C with additional limited evaluation at 40 &#xB0;C. Normal operating conditions range from 10 &#xB0;C to 40 &#xB0;C.

4.8 Exemptions. Equipment intended for recovery only shall be exempt from 4.2 and 4.3.
Section 5. Contaminated Refrigerants

5.1 Sample Characteristics. The standard contaminated refrigerant sample shall have the characteristics specified in Table 1, except as provided in 5.2.

5.2 Recovery-Only Testing. Recovery equipment not rated for any specific contaminant shall be tested with new or reclaimed refrigerant.
Section 6. Test Apparatus

6.1 General Recommendations. The recommended test apparatus is described in the following paragraphs. If alternate test apparatus are employed, the user shall be able to demonstrate that they produce results equivalent to the specified referee apparatus.

6.2 Self-Contained Equipment Test Apparatus. The apparatus, shown in Figure 1, shall consist of:

6.2.1 Mixing Chamber. A mixing chamber consisting of a tank with a conical-shaped bottom, a bottom port and piping for delivering refrigerant to the equipment, various ports and valves for adding refrigerant to the chamber and stirring means for mixing.

6.2.2 Filling Storage Cylinder. The storage cylinder to be filled by the refrigerant transferred shall be cleaned and at the pressure of the recovered refrigerant at the beginning of the test. It will not be filled over 80%, by volume.

6.2.3 Vapor Feed. Vapor refrigerant feed consisting of evaporator, control valves and piping to create a 3.0 &#xB0;C superheat condition at an evaporating temperature of 21 &#xB0;C &#xB1;2K.

6.2.4 Alternative Vapor Feed. An alternative method for vapor feed shall be to pass the refrigerant through a boiler and then through an automatic pressure regulating valve set at different saturation pressures, moving from saturated pressure at 24 &#xB0;C to final pressure of recovery.

6.2.5 Liquid Feed. Liquid refrigerant feed consisting of control valves, sampling port and piping.

6.2.6 Instrumentation. Instrumentation capable of measuring weight, temperature, pressure and refrigerant loss, as required.

Table 1—Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Samples

R11
R12
R13
R22
R113
R114
R123
R134a
R500
R502
R503

Moisture Content: ppm by Weight of Pure refrigerant
100
80
30
200
100
85
200
200
200
200
30

Particulate Content: ppm by Weight of Pure Refrigerant Characterized by 1
80
80
NA
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
NA

Acid Content: ppm by Weight of Pure Refrigerant—(mg KOH per kg Refrigerant) Characterized by 2
500
100
NA
500
400
200
500
100
100
100
NA

Mineral Oil Content:

% by Weight of Pure Refrigerant
20
5
NA
5
20
20
20
5
5
5
NA

Viscosity (SUS)
300
150

300
300
300
300
150 3
150
150

Non-Condensable Gases (Air Content): % by Volume
NA
3
3
3
NA
3
NA
3
3
3
3

1 Particulate content shall consist of inert materials and shall comply with particulate requirements in appendix B.
2 Acid consists of 60% oleic acid and 40% hydrochloric acid on a total number basis.
3 Synthetic ester-based oil.

6.3 Size. The size of the mixing chamber shall be a minimum of .09 m
3. The bottom port and the refrigerant feed shall depend on the size of the equipment. Typically, the mixing valves and piping shall be 9.5 mm. For large equipment to be used on chillers, the minimum inside diameter of ports, valves and pipings shall be the smaller of the manufacturer's recommendation or 37 mm.

6.4 System Dependent Equipment Test Apparatus. This test apparatus is to be used for final recovery vacuum rating of all system dependent equipment.

6.4.1 Test Setup. The test apparatus shown in Figure 2 consists of a complete refrigeration system. The manufacturer shall identify the refrigerants to be tested. The test apparatus can be modified to facilitate operation or testing of the system dependent equipment if the modifications to the apparatus are specifically described within the manufacturer's literature. (See Figure 2.) A 6.3 mm balance line shall be connected across the test apparatus between the high and low-pressure sides, with an isolation valve located at the connection to the compressor high side. A 6.3 mm access port with a valve core shall be located in the balance line for the purpose of measuring final recovery vacuum at the conclusion of the test.
Section 7. Performance Testing

7.1 General Testing.

7.1.1 Temperatures. Testing shall be conducted at an ambient temperature of 24 &#xB0;C &#xB1;1K except high temperature vapor recovery shall be at 40 &#xB0;C &#xB1;1K. The evaporator conditions of 6.2.3 shall be maintained as long as liquid refrigerant remains in the mixing chamber.

7.1.2 Refrigerants. The equipment shall be tested for all designated refrigerants (see 11.2). All tests in Section 7 shall be completed for each refrigerant before starting tests with the next refrigerant.

7.1.3 Selected Tests. Tests shall be as appropriate for the equipment type and ratings parameters selected (see 9.9, 11.1 and 11.2).

7.1.4 Hose Assemblies. For the purpose of limiting refrigerant emissions to the atmosphere, hose assemblies shall be tested for permeation according to ANSI/UL Standard 1963, Section 40.10.

7.2 Equipment Preparation and Operation. The equipment shall be prepared and operated per the operating instructions.

7.3 Test Batch. The test batch consisting of refrigerant sample (see Section 5) of the test refrigerant shall be prepared and thoroughly mixed. Continued mixing or stirring shall be required during the test while liquid refrigerant remains in the mixing chamber. The mixing chamber shall be filled to 80% level by volume.

7.3.1 Control Test Batch. Prior to starting the test for the first batch for each refrigerant, a liquid sample will be drawn from the mixing chamber and analyzed per Section 8 to assure that contaminant levels match Table 1 within &#xB1;10 ppm for moisture, &#xB1;20 ppm for particulate, &#xB1;20 ppm for oleic acid and &#xB1;0.5% for oil.

7.4 Recovery Tests (Recovery and Recovery/Recycle Equipment).

7.4.1 Determining Recovery Rates. The liquid and vapor refrigerant recovery rates shall be measured during the first test batch for each refrigerant (see 9.1, 9.2 and 9.4). Equipment preparation and recovery cylinder changeover shall not be included in elapsed time measurements for determining vapor recovery rate and liquid refrigerant recovery rate. Operations such as subcooling the recovery cylinder shall be included. Recovery cylinder shall be the same size as normally furnished or specified in the instructions by the equipment manufacturer. Oversized tanks shall not be permitted.

7.4.1.1 Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate. If elected, the recovery rate using the liquid refrigerant feed means (see 6.2.5) shall be determined. After the equipment reaches stabilized conditions of condensing temperature and/or recovery cylinder pressure, the recovery process shall be stopped and an initial weight shall be taken of the mixing chamber (see 9.2). The recovery process shall be continued for a period of time sufficient to achieve the accuracy in 9.4. The recovery process shall be stopped and a final weight shall be taken of the mixing chamber.

7.4.1.2 Vapor Refrigerant Recovery Rate. If elected, the average vapor flow rate shall be measured to accuracy requirements in clause 9.4 under conditions with no liquid refrigerant in the mixing chamber. The liquid recovery feed means shall be used. At initial conditions of saturated vapor at the higher of 24 &#xB0;C or the boiling temperature (100 kPa absolute pressure), the weight of the mixing chamber and the pressure shall be recorded. At final conditions representing pressure in the mixing chamber of 10% of the initial condition, but not less than the final recovery vacuum (see 9.6) nor more than 100 kPa, measure the weight of the mixing chamber and the elapsed time.

7.4.1.3 High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate. Applicable for equipment having at least one designated refrigerant (see 11.2) with a boiling point between &#x2212;50 &#xB0;C and +10 &#xB0;C. Measure the rate for R-22, or the refrigerant with the lowest boiling point if R-22 is not a designated refrigerant. Repeat the test in 7.4.1.2 at saturated conditions at 40 &#xB0;C and continue to operate equipment to assure it will achieve the final recovery vacuum (see 7.4.3).

7.4.2 Recovery Operation. This test is for determining the final recovery vacuum and the ability to remove contaminants as appropriate. If equipment is rated for liquid recovery (see 7.4.1.3), liquid recovery feed means described in 6.2.5 shall be used. If not, vapor recovery means described in 6.2.3 or 6.2.4 shall be used. Continue recovery operation until all liquid is removed from the test apparatus and vapor is removed to the point where equipment shuts down by automatic means or is manually shut off per operating instructions.

7.4.2.1 Oil Draining. Capture oil from the equipment at intervals as required in the instructions. Record the weight of the container. Completely remove refrigerant from oil by evacuation or other appropriate means. The weight difference shall be used in 9.5.2.

7.4.3 Final Recovery Vacuum. At the end of the first test batch for each refrigerant, the liquid valve and vapor valve of the apparatus shall be closed. After waiting 1 minute, the mixing chamber pressure shall be recorded (see 9.6).

7.4.4 Residual Refrigerant. This test will measure the mass of remaining refrigerant in the equipment after clearing and therefore the potential for mixing refrigerants (see 4.6).

7.4.4.1 Initial Conditions. At the end of the last test for each batch for each refrigerant, the equipment shall be disconnected from the test apparatus (Figure 1). Recycle per 7.5, if appropriate. Perform refrigerant clearing operations as called for in the instruction manual. Capture and record the weight of any refrigerant which would have been emitted to the atmosphere during the clearing process for use in 9.5. If two loops are used for recycling, trapped refrigerant shall be measured for both.

7.4.4.2 Residual Trapped Refrigerant. Evacuate an empty test cylinder to 1.0 kPa absolute. Record the empty weight of the test cylinder. Open all valves to the equipment so as to provide access to all trapped refrigerant. Connect the equipment to the test cylinder and operate valves to recover the residual refrigerant. Record the weight of the test cylinder using a recovery cylinder pressure no less than specified in 6.2.2. Place the test cylinder in liquid nitrogen for a period of 30 minutes or until a vacuum of 1000 microns is reached, whichever occurs first.

7.5 Recycling Tests (Recovery/Recycle Equipment).

7.5.1 Recycling Operation. As each recovery cylinder is filled in 7.4.2, recycle according to operating instructions. There will not necessarily be a separate recycling sequence. Note non-condensable purge measurement in 9.5.

7.5.1.1 Recycle Flow Rate. While recycling the first recovery cylinder for each refrigerant, determine the recycling flow rate by appropriate means (see 9.3) to achieve the accuracy required in 9.4.

7.5.2 Non-Condensable Sample. After completing 7.4.3, prepare a second test batch (7.3). Recover per 7.4.2 until the current recovery cylinder is filled to 80% level by volume. Recycle per 7.5.1. Mark this cylinder and set aside for taking the vapor sample. For equipment having both an internal tank of at least 3 kg refrigerant capacity and an external recovery cylinder, two recovery cylinders shall be marked and set aside. The first is the cylinder described above. The second cylinder is the final recovery cylinder after filling it to 80% level by volume and recycling.

7.5.3 Liquid Sample for Analysis. Repeat steps 7.3, 7.4.2 and 7.5.1 with further test batches until indication means in 4.2 show the filter/drier(s) need replacing.

7.5.3.1 Multiple Pass. For equipment with a separate recycling circuit (multiple pass), set aside the current cylinder and draw the liquid sample (see 7.4) from the previous cylinder.

7.5.3.2 Single Pass. For equipment with the single pass recycling circuit, draw the liquid sample (see 7.4) from the current cylinder.

7.6 Measuring Refrigerant Loss. Refrigerant loss due to non-condensables shall be determined by appropriate means (see 9.5.1). The loss could occur in 7.4.1, 7.4.2 and 7.5.1.
Section 8. Sampling and Chemical Analysis Methods

8.1 Chemical Analysis. Chemical analysis methods shall be specified in appropriate standards such as ARI 700-95 and Appendix C to ARI Standard 700-95.

8.2 Refrigerant Sampling.

8.2.1 Water Content. The water content in refrigerant shall be measured by the Karl Fischer Analytical Method or by the Karl Fischer Coulometric techniques. Report the moisture level in parts per million by weight.

8.2.2 Chloride Ions. Chloride ions shall be measured by turbidity tests. At this time, quantitative results have not been defined. Report chloride content as &#x201C;pass&#x201D; or &#x201C;fail.&#x201D; In the future, when quantitative results are possible, report chloride content as parts per million by weight.

8.2.3 Acidity. The acidity test uses the titration principle. Report the acidity in parts per million by weight (mg KOH/kg) of sample.

8.2.4 High Boiling Residue. High boiling residues shall use measurement of the volume of residue after evaporating a standard volume of refrigerant. Using weight measurement and converting to volumetric units is acceptable. Report high boiling residues as percent by volume.

8.2.5 Particulates/Solids. The particulates/solids measurement employs visual examination. Report results as &#x201C;pass&#x201D; or &#x201C;fail.&#x201D;

8.2.6 Non-condensables. The level of contamination by non-condensable gases in the base refrigerant being recycled shall be determined by gas chromatography. Report results as percent by volume.
Section 9. Performance Calculation and Rating

9.1 Vapor Refrigerant Recovery Rate. This rate shall be measured by weight change of the mixing chamber divided by elapsed time (see 7.4.1.2). The units shall be kg/min and the accuracy shall be per 9.4.

9.1.1 High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate.

9.2 Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate. This rate shall be measured by weight change of the mixing chamber divided by elapsed time (see 7.4.1.3). The units shall be kg/min and the accuracy shall be per 9.4.

9.3 Recycle Flow Rate. The recycle flow rate shall be as defined in 3.10, expressed in kg/min, and the accuracy shall be per 9.4.

9.3.1 For equipment using multi-pass recycling or a separate sequence, the recycle rate shall be determined by dividing the net weight W of the refrigerant to be recycled by the actual time T required to recycle. Any set-up or operator interruptions shall not be included in the time T.

9.3.2 If no separate recycling sequence is used, the recycle rate shall be the higher of the vapor refrigerant recovery rate or the liquid refrigerant recovery rate. The recycle rate shall match a process which leads to contaminant levels in 9.9. Specifically, a recovery rate determined from bypassing a contaminant removal device cannot be used as a recycle rate when the contaminant levels in 9.9 are determined by passing the refrigerant through the contaminant removal device.

9.4 Accuracy of Flow Rates. The accuracy of test measurements in 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3 shall be &#xB1;008 kg/min or flow rates up to .42 kg/min and &#xB1;2.0% for flow rates larger than .42 kg/min. Ratings shall be expressed to the nearest .02 kg/min.

9.5 Refrigerant Loss. This calculation will be based upon the net loss of refrigerant which would have been eliminated in the non-condensable purge process (see 7.5.1), the oil draining process (see 7.4.2.1) and the refrigerant clearing process (see 7.4.4.1), all divided by the net refrigerant content of the test batches. The refrigerant loss shall not exceed 3% by weight.

9.5.1 Non-Condensable Purge. Evacuate an empty container to 2 kPa absolute. Record the empty weight of the container. Place the container in a dry ice bath. Connect the equipment purge connection to the container and operate purge according to operating instructions so as to capture the non-condensables and lost refrigerant. Weigh the cylinder after the recycling is complete. Equivalent means are permissible.

9.5.2 Oil Draining. Refrigerant removed from the oil after draining shall be collected and measured in accordance with 7.4.2.1.

9.5.3 Clearing Unit. Refrigerant captured during the clearing process shall be measured in accordance with 7.4.4.1.

9.6 Final Recovery Vacuum. The final recovery vacuum shall be the mixing chamber pressure in 7.4.3 expressed in kPa. The accuracy of the measurement shall be within 0.33 kPa.

9.7 Residual Trapped Refrigerant. The amount of residual trapped refrigerant shall be the final weight minus the initial weight of the test cylinder in 7.4.4.2, expressed in kg. The accuracy shall be &#xB1;0.02 kg and reported to the nearest 0.05 kg.

9.8 Quantity Recycled. The amount of refrigerant processed before changing filters (see 7.5.3) shall be expressed in kg to an accuracy of &#xB1;1%.

9.9 Contaminant Levels. The contaminant levels remaining after testing shall be published as follows:

Moisture content, ppm by weight

Chloride ions, pass/fail

Acidity, ppm by weight

High boiling residue, % (by volume)

Particulates-solid, pass/fail (visual examination)

Non-condensables, % (by volume)

9.10 Minimum Data Requirements for Published Ratings. Published ratings shall include all of the parameters as shown in Tables 2 and 3 for each refrigerant designated by the manufacturer.
Section 10. Tolerances

10.1 Tolerances. Performance related parameters shall not be less favorable than the published ratings.
Section 11. Marking and Nameplate Data

11.1 Marking and Nameplate Data. The nameplate shall display the manufacturer's name, model designation, type of equipment, designated refrigerants, capacities and electrical characteristics where applicable. The nameplate shall also conform to the labeling requirements established for certified recycling and recovery equipment established at 40 CFR 82.158(h).

Recommended nameplate voltages for 60 Hertz systems shall include one or more of the utilization voltages shown in Table 1 of ARI Standard 110-90. Recommended nameplate voltages for 50 Hertz systems shall include one or more of the utilization voltages shown in Table 1 of IEC Standard Publication 38, IEC Standard Voltages.

11.2 Data for Designated Refrigerants. For each refrigerant designated, the manufacturer shall include all the following that are applicable per Table 2:
a. Liquid Recovery Rate

b. Vapor Recovery Rate

c. High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate

d. Final Recovery Vacuum

e. Recycle Flow Rate

f. Residual Trapped Refrigerant

g. Quantity Recycled

Table 2—Performance

Parameter/Type of equipment
Recovery
Recovery/Recycle
Recycle
Systemdependentequipment

Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate
(1)
(1)
N/A
N/A

Vapor Refrigerant Recovery Rate
(1)
(1)
N/A
N/A

High Temp. Vapor Recovery Rate
(1)
(1)
N/A
N/A

Final Recovery Vacuum
(X)
(X)
N/A
(X)

Recycle Flow Rate
N/A
(X)
(X)
N/A

Refrigerant Loss
(3)
(X)
(X)
(3)

Residual Trapped Refrigerant
(2)
(2)
(2)
(2)

Quantity Recycled
N/A
(X)
(X)
N/A

X Mandatory rating.
1 For a recovery or recovery/recycle unit, one must rate either liquid refrigerant recovery rate or vapor refrigerant recovery rate or one can rate for both. If rating only the one, the other shall be indicated by N/A, &#x201C;not applicable.&#x201D;
2 Mandatory rating for equipment tested for multiple refrigerants.
3 Mandatory rating if multiple refrigerants, oil separation or non-condensable purge are rated.
Note: For recovery equipment, these parameters are optional. If not rated use N/A, &#x201C;not applicable.&#x201D;

Table 3—Contaminants

Contaminant/Type of equipment
Recovery
Recovery/Recycle
Recycle
Systemdependentequipment

Moisture Content
(*)
(X)
(X)
N/A

Chloride Ions
(*)
(X)
(X)
N/A

Acidity
(*)
(X)
(X)
N/A

High Boiling Residue
(*)
(X)
(X)
N/A

Particulates
(*)
(X)
(X)
N/A

Non-Condensables
(*)
(X)
(X)
N/A

* For recovery equipment, these parameters are optional. If not rated, use N/A, &#x201C;not applicable.&#x201D;
X Mandatory rating.

Attachment 1 to Appendix B2 to Subpart F of Part 82—References

Listed here are all standards, handbooks, and other publications essential to the formation and implementation of the standard. All references in this appendix are considered as part of this standard.

&#x2022; ANSI/UL Standard 1963, Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment, First Edition, 1989, American National Standards Institute/Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.

&#x2022; ARI Standard 110-90, Air-Conditioning and Refrigerating Equipment Nameplate Voltages, Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute

&#x2022; ARI Standard 700-95, Specifications for Fluorocarbon and Other Refrigerants, Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute

&#x2022; ASHRAE Terminology of Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning, Refrigeration, & Refrigeration, American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Inc., 1991

&#x2022; IEC Standard Publication 38, IEC Standard Voltages, International Electrotechnical Commission, 1983
Attachment 2 to Appendix B2 to Subpart F of Part 82-Particulate Used in Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Sample

1. Particulate Specification

B1.1 The particulate material (pm) will be a blend of 50% coarse air cleaner dust as received, and 50% retained on a 200-mesh screen. The coarse air cleaner dust is available from: AC Spark Plug Division; General Motors Corporation; Flint, Michigan.

B1.2 Preparation of Particulate Materials.

To prepare the blend of contaminant, first wet screen a quantity of coarse air cleaner dust on a 200-mesh screen (particle retention 74 pm). This is done by placing a portion of the dust on a 200-mesh screen and running water through the screen while stirring the dust with the fingers. The fine contaminant particles passing through the screen are discarded. The +200-mesh particles collected on the screen are removed and dried for one hour at 110 &#xB0;C. The blend of standard contaminant is prepared by mixing 50% by weight of coarse air cleaner dust as received (after drying for one hour at 110 &#xB0;C) with 50% by weight of the +200 mesh screened dust.

B1.3 Particle Size Analysis.

The coarse air cleaner dust as received and the blend used as the standard contaminant have the following approximate particle size analysis:

Wt. % in various size ranges, pm.

Size range
As received
Blend

0-5
12
6

5-10
12
6

10-20
14
7

20-40
23
11

40-80
30
32

80-200
9
38

[68 FR 43815, July 24, 2003; 68 FR 54678, Sept. 18, 2003]

### Appendix B3 to Subpart F of Part 82—Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling, and/or Reclaim Equipment

This appendix is based on the Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute Standard 740-2016, Performance Rating of Refrigerant Recovery Equipment and Recovery/Recycling Equipment.
Section 1. Purpose

1.1 The purpose of this standard is to establish methods of testing for rating and evaluating the performance of refrigerant recovery, and/or recycling equipment and general equipment requirements (herein referred to as &#x201C;equipment&#x201D;) for contaminant or purity levels, capacity, speed and purge loss to minimize emission into the atmosphere of designated refrigerants.
Section 2. Scope

2.1 This standard applies to equipment for recovering and/or recycling single refrigerants, azeotropes, zeotropic blends, and their normal contaminants from refrigerant systems. This standard defines the test apparatus, test gas mixtures, sampling procedures and analytical techniques that will be used to determine the performance of refrigerant recovery and/or recycling equipment (hereinafter, &#x201C;equipment&#x201D;). Appendix B4 of this subpart establishes standards for recovery/recycling equipment used with flammable refrigerants.
Section 3. Definitions

3.1 Definitions. All terms in this appendix will follow the definitions in § 82.152 unless otherwise defined in this appendix.

3.2 Clearing Refrigerant. Procedures used to remove trapped refrigerant(s) from equipment before switching from one refrigerant to another.

3.3 High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate. For equipment having at least one designated refrigerant (see Section 11.2 of this appendix) with a boiling point in the range of &#x2212;50 to +10 &#xB0;C, the rate will be measured for R-22, or the lowest boiling point refrigerant if R-22 is not a designated refrigerant.

3.4 Published Ratings. A statement of the assigned values of those performance characteristics, under stated rating conditions, by which a unit may be chosen to fit its application. These values apply to all units of like nominal size and type (identification) produced by the same manufacturer. As used herein, the term &#x201C;published rating&#x201D; includes the rating of all performance characteristics shown on the unit or published in specifications, advertising, or other literature controlled by the manufacturer, at stated rating conditions.

3.5 Push/Pull Liquid Recovery. The push/pull refrigerant recovery method is defined as the process of transferring liquid refrigerant from a refrigeration system to a receiving vessel by lowering the pressure in the vessel and raising the pressure in the system, and by connecting a separate line between the system liquid port and the receiving vessel.

3.6 Recycle Flow Rate. The amount of refrigerant processed divided by the time elapsed in the recycling mode. For equipment which uses a separate recycling sequence, the recycle rate does not include the recovery rate (or elapsed time). For equipment which does not use a separate recycling sequence, the recycle rate is a rate based solely on the higher of the liquid or vapor recovery rate, by which the contaminant levels were measured.

3.7 Residual Trapped Refrigerant. Refrigerant remaining in equipment after clearing refrigerant.

3.8 Shall, Should, Recommended or It Is Recommended shall be interpreted as follows:

3.8.1 Shall. Where &#x201C;shall&#x201D; or &#x201C;shall not&#x201D; is used for a provision specified, that provision is mandatory if compliance with this appendix is claimed.

3.8.2 Should, Recommended or It Is Recommended is used to indicate provisions which are not mandatory but which are desirable as good practice.

3.9 Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Sample. A mixture of new or reclaimed refrigerant and specified quantities of identified contaminants which constitute the mixture to be processed by the equipment under test. These contaminant levels are expected only from severe service conditions.

3.10 Trapped Refrigerant. The amount of refrigerant remaining in the equipment after the recovery or recovery/recycling operation but before clearing refrigerant.

3.11 Vapor Recovery Rate. The average rate that refrigerant is withdrawn from the mixing chamber between two pressures as vapor recovery rate is changing depending on the pressure. The initial condition is vapor only at saturation pressure and temperature at either 24 &#xB0;C or at the boiling point at 100 kPa, whichever is higher. The final pressure condition is 10 percent of the initial pressure, but not lower than the equipment final recovery vacuum and not higher than 100 kPa.
Section 4. General Equipment Requirements

4.1 Equipment Information. The equipment manufacturer shall provide operating instructions, necessary maintenance procedures, and source information for replacement parts and repair.

4.2 Filter Replacement. The equipment shall indicate when any filter/drier(s) needs replacement. This requirement can be met by use of a moisture transducer and indicator light, by use of a sight glass/moisture indicator, or by some measurement of the amount of refrigerant processed such as a flow meter or hour meter. The equipment manufacturer must provide maximum quantity recycled or filter change interval in its written instructions.

4.3 Purge of Non-Condensable. If non-condensables are purged, the equipment shall either automatically purge non-condensables or provide an indicating means to guide the purge process. Recycling equipment must provide purge means.

4.4 Purge Loss. The total refrigerant loss due to purging non-condensables, draining oil, and clearing refrigerant (see Section 9.5) shall be less than 3 percent (by weight) of total processed refrigerant.

4.5 Permeation Rate. High pressure hose assemblies
5/8 in. (16 mm) nominal and smaller shall not exceed a permeation rate of 3.9 g/cm
2/yr (internal surface) at a temperature of 48.8 &#xB0;C. Hose assemblies that UL recognized as having passed UL 1963, 2011 requirements shall be accepted without testing. See Section 7.1.4 of this appendix.

4.6 Clearing Trapped Refrigerant. For equipment rated for more than one refrigerant, the manufacturer shall provide a method and instructions which will accomplish connections and clearing within 15 minutes. Special equipment, other than a vacuum pump or manifold gauge set, shall be furnished. The clearing procedure shall not rely upon the storage cylinder below saturated pressure conditions at ambient temperature.

4.7 Temperature. The equipment shall be evaluated at 24 &#xB0;C with additional limited evaluation at 40 &#xB0;C. Normal operating conditions range from 10 &#xB0;C to 40 &#xB0;C.

4.8 Exemptions. Equipment intended for recovery only shall be exempt from Sections 4.2 and 4.3.
Section 5. Contaminated Refrigerants

5.1 Sample Characteristics. The standard contaminated refrigerant sample shall have the characteristics specified in Table 1, except as provided in Section 5.2 of this appendix. Testing shall be conducted at an ambient temperature of 24 &#xB0;C &#xB1; 1 &#xB0;C except high temperature vapor recovery shall be 40 &#xB0;C &#xB1; 1 &#xB0;C.

5.2 Recovery-only Testing. Recovery equipment not rated for removal of contaminants shall be tested with new or reclaimed refrigerant.

Section 6. Test Apparatus

6.1 General Recommendations. The recommended test apparatus is described in the following paragraphs. If alternate test apparatus are employed, the user shall be able to demonstrate that they produce results equivalent to the specified reference apparatus.

6.2 Self-Contained Equipment Test Apparatus. The apparatus, shown in Figure 1, shall consist of:

6.2.1 Mixing Chamber. A mixing chamber consisting of a tank with a conical-shaped bottom, a bottom port and piping for delivering refrigerant to the equipment, various ports and valves for adding refrigerant to the chamber, and stirring means for mixing.

6.2.2 Filling Storage Cylinder. The storage cylinder to be filled by the refrigerant transferred shall be cleaned and at the pressure of the recovered refrigerant at the beginning of the test. It will not be filled over 80 percent, by volume.

6.2.3 Vapor Feed. Vapor refrigerant feed consisting of evaporator, control valves and piping to create a 3.0 &#xB0;C superheat condition at an evaporating temperature of 21 &#xB0;C &#xB1; 2 &#xB0;C.

6.2.4 Alternative Vapor Feed. An alternative method for vapor feed shall be to pass the refrigerant through a boiler and then through an automatic pressure regulating valve set at different saturation pressures, moving from saturated pressure at 24 &#xB0;C to final pressure of recovery.

6.2.5 Liquid Feed. Liquid refrigerant feed consisting of control valves, sampling port, and piping.

6.2.6 Instrumentation. Instrumentation capable of measuring weight, temperature, pressure, and refrigerant loss, as required.

6.3 Size. The size of the mixing chamber and filling storage cylinder used during testing shall correspond to the size of the equipment being tested per Section 6.3.1 or 6.3.2:

6.3.1 For equipment utilizing nominal
1/4&#x2033; or
3/8&#x2033; flare ports and hoses, the mixing chamber shall be 0.09 m
3 and all ports, valves, mixing valves, and piping shall be
1/2&#x2033; or larger, reduced down to the port size of the equipment by fittings at the connection ports of the mixing chamber. The filling storage cylinder used during testing shall be a nominal 50-pound water capacity DOT 4Bx cylinder with
1/4&#x2033; flare liquid and vapor ports.

6.3.2 For equipment utilizing
1/2&#x2033; or larger flare ports and hoses, the mixing chamber shall be 0.45 m
3 (or nominal 1000-pound water capacity DOT 4Bx cylinder) and all ports, valves, mixing valves, and piping shall be 1
1/2&#x2033; or larger, reduced down to the port size of the equipment by fittings at the connection ports of the mixing chamber. The filling storage cylinder used during testing shall be a nominal 1000-pound water capacity DOT 4Bx cylinder with liquid and vapor ports, valves and piping sized
3/4&#x2033; NPT and reduced or increased to the port size of the equipment by fittings at the connection ports of the filling storage cylinder.

6.4 System Dependent Equipment Test Apparatus. This test apparatus is to be used for final recovery vacuum rating of all system dependent equipment.

6.4.1 Test Setup. The test apparatus shown in Figure 2 consists of a complete refrigeration system. The manufacturer shall identify the refrigerants to be tested. The test apparatus can be modified to facilitate operation or testing of the system dependent equipment if the modifications to the apparatus are specifically described within the manufacturer's literature. A 6.3 mm balance line shall be connected across the test apparatus between the high- and low-pressure sides, with an isolation valve located at the connection to the compressor high side. A 6.3 mm access port with a valve core shall be located in the balance line for the purpose of measuring final recovery vacuum at the conclusion of the test.

Section 7. Performance Testing Procedures

7.1 General Testing.

7.1.1 Temperatures. Testing shall be conducted at an ambient temperature of 24 &#xB0;C &#xB1; 1 &#xB0;C except high temperature vapor recovery shall be at 40 &#xB0;C &#xB1; 1 &#xB0;C. The evaporator conditions of Section 6.2.3 shall be maintained as long as liquid refrigerant remains in the mixing chamber.

7.1.2 Refrigerants. The equipment shall be tested for all designated refrigerants (see Section 11.2). All tests in Section 7 shall be completed for each refrigerant before starting tests with the next refrigerant.

7.1.3 Selected Tests. Tests shall be as appropriate for the equipment type and ratings parameters selected (see Sections 9.9, 11.1 and 11.2).

7.1.4 Hose Assemblies. For the purpose of limiting refrigerant emissions to the atmosphere, hose assemblies shall be tested for permeation according to UL Standard 1963 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

7.2 Equipment Preparation and Operation. The equipment shall be prepared and operated per the operating instructions.

7.3 Test Batch. The test batch consisting of refrigerant sample (see Section 5) of the test refrigerant shall be prepared and thoroughly mixed. Continued mixing or stirring shall be required during the test while liquid refrigerant remains in the mixing chamber. The mixing chamber shall be filled to 80 percent level by volume.

7.3.1 Control Test Batch. Prior to starting the test for the first batch for each refrigerant, a liquid sample will be drawn from the mixing chamber and analyzed per Section 8 to assure that contaminant levels match Table 1 within &#xB1;10 ppm for moisture, &#xB1;20 ppm for oleic acid and &#xB1;0.5 percent for oil.

7.4 Recovery Tests (Recovery and Recovery/Recycling Equipment)

7.4.1 Determining Recovery Rates. The liquid and vapor refrigerant recovery rates shall be measured during the first test batch for each refrigerant (see Sections 9.1, 9.2 and 9.4). Equipment preparation and recovery cylinder changeover shall not be included in elapsed time measurements for determining vapor recovery rate and liquid refrigerant recovery rate. Operations such as subcooling the recovery cylinder shall be included. The recovery cylinder shall be the same size as per Section 6.3 or as furnished by the equipment manufacturer. Oversized tanks shall not be permitted.

7.4.1.1 Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate. If elected, the recovery rate using the liquid refrigerant feed means (see Section 6.2.5) shall be determined. After the equipment reaches stabilized conditions of condensing temperature and/or recovery cylinder pressure, the recovery process shall be stopped and an initial weight shall be taken of the mixing chamber (see Section 9.2). The recovery process shall be continued for a period of time sufficient to achieve the accuracy in Section 9.4. The recovery process shall be stopped and a final weight of the mixing chamber shall be taken.

7.4.1.2 Vapor Refrigerant Recovery Rate. If elected, the average vapor flow rate shall be measured to accuracy requirements in Section 9.4 under conditions with no liquid refrigerant in the mixing chamber. The liquid recovery feed means shall be used. At initial conditions of saturated vapor at the higher of 24 &#xB0;C or the boiling temperature (100 kPa), the weight of the mixing chamber and the pressure shall be recorded. At final conditions representing pressure in the mixing chamber of 10 percent of the initial condition, but not less than the final recovery vacuum (see Section 9.6) nor more than 100 kPa, measure the weight of the mixing chamber and the elapsed time. At initial conditions, the recovery cylinder shall be at saturation pressure at ambient conditions.

7.4.1.3 High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate. This is applicable for equipment having at least one designated refrigerant (see Section 11.2) with a boiling point between &#x2212;50 &#xB0;C and +10 &#xB0;C. Measure the rate for R-22, or the refrigerant with the lowest boiling point if R-22 is not a designated refrigerant. Repeat the test in Section 7.4.1.2 at saturated conditions at 40 &#xB0;C and continue to operate equipment to assure it will operate at this condition (see Section 7.4.3). At initial conditions, the recovery cylinder shall be at saturated pressure at 40 &#xB0;C.

7.4.1.4 Push/Pull Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate. If elected, the average liquid push/pull flow rate shall be measured to accuracy requirements in Section 9.4. The mixing chamber and filling storage cylinder shall be filled with refrigerant vapor at initial conditions of saturated vapor at the higher of 24 &#xB0;C or the boiling temperature at 100 kPa. An amount of liquid refrigerant shall be added to the mixing chamber equivalent to 80 percent by weight of the capacity of the filling storage cylinder. The pressure between the mixing chamber and filling storage cylinder shall be equalized and stabilized at initial conditions of saturated vapor at the higher of 24 &#xB0;C or the boiling temperature at 100 kPa. The initial weight of the mixing chamber and the pressure shall be recorded. The equipment is then operated in push/pull liquid recovery mode and the weight change of the mixing chamber is recorded over time until all of the liquid has been transferred.

7.4.2 Recovery Operation. This test is for determining the final recovery vacuum and the ability to remove contaminants as appropriate. If equipment is rated for liquid recovery (see Section 7.4.1.3), liquid recovery feed means described in Section 6.2.5 shall be used. If not, vapor recovery means described in Sections 6.2.3 or 6.2.4 shall be used. Continue recovery operation until all liquid is removed from the test apparatus and vapor is removed to the point where equipment shuts down by automatic means or is manually shut off per operating instructions.

7.4.2.1 Oil Draining. Capture oil from the equipment at intervals as required in the instructions. Record the weight of the container. Completely remove refrigerant from oil by evacuation or other appropriate means. The weight difference shall be used in Section 7.5.2.

7.4.3 Final Recovery Vacuum. At the end of the first test batch for each refrigerant, the liquid valve and vapor valve of the apparatus shall be closed. After waiting 1 minute, the mixing chamber pressure shall be recorded (see Section 9.6).

7.4.4 Residual Refrigerant. This test will measure the mass of remaining refrigerant in the equipment after clearing and therefore the extent of mixing different refrigerants (see Section 9.6).

7.4.4.1 Initial Conditions. At the end of the last test for each batch for each refrigerant, the equipment shall be disconnected from the test apparatus (Figure 1). Recycle per Section 7.5, if appropriate. Perform refrigerant clearing operations as called for in the instruction manual. Capture and record the weight of any refrigerant which would have been emitted to the atmosphere during the clearing process for use in Section 9.5. If two loops are used for recycling, trapped refrigerant shall be measured for both.

7.4.4.2 Residual Trapped Refrigerant. Evacuate an empty test cylinder to 1.0 kPa. Record the empty weight of the test cylinder. Open all valves to the equipment so as to provide access to all trapped refrigerant. Connect the equipment to the test cylinder and operate valves to recover the residual refrigerant. Record the weight of the test cylinder using a recovery cylinder pressure no less than specified in Section 6.2.2. Place the test cylinder in liquid nitrogen for a period of 30 minutes or until a vacuum of 1000 microns is reached, whichever occurs first.

7.5 Recycling Tests (Recovery/Recycling Equipment).

7.5.1 Recycling Operation. As each recovery cylinder is filled in Section 7.4.2, recycle according to operating instructions. There will not necessarily be a separate recycling sequence. Note non-condensable purge measurement in Section 9.5.

7.5.1.1 Recycle Flow Rate. While recycling the first recovery cylinder for each refrigerant, determine the recycling flow rate by appropriate means (see Section 9.3) to achieve the accuracy required in Section 9.4.

7.5.2 Non-Condensable Sample. After completing Section 7.4.3, prepare a second test batch (see Section 7.3). Recover per Section 7.4.2 until the current recovery cylinder is filled to 80 percent level by volume. Recycle per Section 7.5.1. Mark this cylinder and set aside for taking the vapor sample. For equipment having both an internal tank of at least 3 kg refrigerant capacity and an external recovery cylinder, two recovery cylinders shall be marked and set aside. The first is the cylinder described above. The second cylinder is the final recovery cylinder after filling it to 80 percent level by volume and recycling.

7.5.2.1 Push/Pull Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate. This rate shall be measured by weight change of the mixing chamber divided by elapsed time (see Section 7.4.1.4). The units shall be kg/min and the accuracy shall be per Section 9.4.

7.5.3 Liquid Sample for Analysis. Repeat steps in Sections 7.3, 7.4.2 and 7.5.1 with further test batches until indication means in Section 4.2 show the filter/drier(s) need replacing.

7.5.3.1 Multiple Pass. For equipment with a separate recycling circuit (multiple pass), set aside the current cylinder and draw the liquid sample (see Section 7.4) from the previous cylinder.

7.5.3.2 Single Pass. For equipment with the single pass recycling circuit, draw the liquid sample (see Section 7.4) from the current cylinder.

7.6 Measuring Refrigerant Loss. Refrigerant loss due to non-condensables shall be determined by appropriate means (see Section 9.5.1). The loss could occur in Sections 7.4.1, 7.4.2 and 7.5.1.
Section 8. Sampling and Chemical Analysis Methods

8.1 Chemical Analysis. Chemical analysis methods shall be specified in appropriate standards such as AHRI Standard 700, 2008 Appendix C for Analytical Procedures for AHRI Standard 700-2014- Normative, and Addendum 700-1 to Appendix C. If alternate test methods are employed, the laboratory must be able to demonstrate that they produce results equivalent to the specified referee method.

8.2 Refrigerant Sampling.

8.2.1 Moisture Content. The water content in refrigerant shall be measured by the Karl Fischer Coulometric Titration technique. Report the moisture level in parts per million by weight.

8.2.2 Chloride Ions. Chloride ions shall be measured by turbidity tests. At this time, quantitative results have not been defined. Report chloride content as &#x201C;pass&#x201D; or &#x201C;fail.&#x201D; In the future, when quantitative results are possible, report chloride content as parts per million by weight.

8.2.3 Acid Content. The acidity test uses the titration principle. Report the acidity in parts per million by weight (mg KOH/kg) of sample.

8.2.4 High Boiling Residue. High boiling residues shall use measurement of the volume of residue after evaporating a standard volume of refrigerant. Using weight measurement and converting to volumetric units is acceptable. Report high boiling residues as percent by volume.

8.2.5 Particulates/Solids. The particulates/solids measurement employs visual examination. Report results as &#x201C;pass&#x201D; or &#x201C;fail.&#x201D;

8.2.6 Non-condensables. The level of contamination by non-condensable gases in the base refrigerant being recycled shall be determined by gas chromatography. Report results as percent by volume.
Section 9. Performance Calculations for Ratings

9.1 Vapor Refrigerant Recovery Rate. This rate shall be measured by weight change of the mixing chamber divided by elapsed time (see 7.4.1.2). The units shall be kg/min and the accuracy shall be per Section 9.4.

9.1.1 High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate. This rate shall be measured by measured weight change of the mixing chamber divided by elapsed time (see Section 7.4.1.3). The units shall be kg/min and the accuracy shall be per Section 9.4.

9.2 Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate. This rate shall be measured by weight change of the mixing chamber divided by elapsed time (see 7.4.1.3). The units shall be kg/min and the accuracy shall be per Section 9.4.

9.3 Recycle Flow Rate. The recycle flow rate shall be as defined in Section 3.12, expressed in kg/min, and the accuracy shall be per Section 9.4.

9.3.1 For equipment using multi-pass recycling or a separate sequence, the recycle rate shall be determined by dividing the net weight, W, of the refrigerant to be recycled by the actual time T required to recycle. Any set-up or operator interruptions shall not be included in the time T.

9.3.2 If no separate recycling sequence is used, the recycle rate shall be the higher of the vapor refrigerant recovery rate or the liquid refrigerant recovery rate. The recycle rate shall match a process which leads to contaminant levels in Section 9.9. Specifically, a recovery rate determined from bypassing a contaminant removal device cannot be used as a recycle rate when the contaminant levels in Section 9.9 are determined by passing the refrigerant through the contaminant removal device.

9.4 Accuracy of Flow Rates. The accuracy of test measurements in Sections 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3 shall be &#xB1;008 kg/min for flow rates up to 0.42 kg/min and &#xB1;2.0 percent for flow rates larger than 0.42 kg/min. Ratings shall be expressed to the nearest 0.02 kg/min.

9.5 Refrigerant Loss. This calculation will be based upon the net loss of refrigerant which would have been eliminated in the non-condensable purge process (see Section 7.5.1), the oil draining process (see Section 7.4.2.1) and the refrigerant clearing process (see Section 7.4.4.1), all divided by the net refrigerant content of the test batches. The refrigerant loss shall not exceed 3 percent by weight.

9.5.1 Non-Condensable Purge. Evacuate an empty container to 2 kPa. Record the empty weight of the container. Place the container in a dry ice bath. Connect the equipment purge connection to the container and operate purge according to operating instructions so as to capture the non-condensables and lost refrigerant. Weigh the cylinder after the recycling is complete. Equivalent means are permissible.

For units which either recycle or publish (list) non-condensable removal, non-condensable gases are purged, operating the recycle device per the manufacturer's instructions through an evaporator pressure regulator (EPR) valve into a liquid nitrogen-chilled cylinder. This combination will simulate the atmosphere while allowing the capture of purge gases. The cylinder is weighed before and after the purge procedure.

9.5.2 Oil Draining. Refrigerant removed from the oil after draining shall be collected and measured in accordance with Section 7.4.2.1.

9.5.3 Clearing Unit. Refrigerant captured during the clearing process shall be measured in accordance with Section 7.4.4.1.

9.6 Final Recovery Vacuum. The final recovery vacuum shall be the mixing chamber pressure in Section 7.4.3 expressed in kPa at 24 &#xB0;C. The accuracy of the measurement shall be within 0.33 kPa.

9.7 Residual Trapped Refrigerant. The amount of residual trapped refrigerant shall be the final weight minus the initial weight of the test cylinder in Section 7.4.4.2, expressed in kg. The accuracy shall be &#xB1;0.02 kg and reported to the nearest 0.05 kg.

9.8 Refrigerant Processed. The amount of refrigerant processed before changing filters (see Section 7.5.3) shall be expressed in kg to an accuracy of &#xB1;1 percent.

9.9 Contaminant Levels. The contaminant levels remaining after testing shall be published as follows:
Moisture content, ppm by weight

Chloride ions, pass/fail

Acid Content, ppm by weight

High boiling residue, percent (by volume)

Particulates/solids, pass/fail (visual examination)

Non-condensables, percent (by volume)

9.10 Minimum Data Requirements for Published Ratings. Published ratings shall include all of the parameters as shown in Tables 2 and 3 for each refrigerant designated by the manufacturer.
Section 10. Tolerances

10.1 Tolerances. Performance related parameters shall be equal to or better than the published ratings.
Section 11. Marking and Nameplate Data

11.1 Marking and Nameplate Data. The nameplate shall display the manufacturer's name, model designation, type of equipment (Recovery or Recovery/Recycling and Self-Contained or System Dependent), designated refrigerant(s), capacities, and electrical characteristics where applicable. The nameplate shall also conform to the labeling requirements established for certified recycling and recovery equipment established at 40 CFR 82.158(h).

Recommended nameplate voltages for 60 Hertz systems shall include one or more of the equipment nameplate voltages shown in Table 1 of AHRI 110-2016 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168). Recommended nameplate voltages for 50 Hertz systems shall include one or more of the utilization voltages shown in Table 1 of IEC 60038 (English version) (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

11.2 Data for Designated Refrigerants. For each refrigerant designated, the manufacturer shall include all the following that are applicable per Table 2:
a. Liquid Recovery Rate, kg/min

b. Vapor Recovery Rate, kg/min

c. High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate, kg/min

d. Push/Pull Liquid Recovery Rate, kg/min

e. Final Recovery Vacuum Level, kPa

f. Recycle Flow Rate, kg/min

g. Refrigerant Loss, kg

h. Residual Trapped Refrigerant, kg

i. Quantity of Refrigerant Processed at Rated Conditions, kg

Table 2—Performance Ratings for Refrigerant Recovery and Recovery/Recycling Equipment 4,5

Parameter
Type of equipment

Recovery
Recovery/recycling
Recycling
Systemdependentequipment

Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate, kg/min
X 1,4
X1
N/A 5
N/A

Vapor Refrigerant Recovery Rate, kg/min
X 1
X 1
N/A
N/A

High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate, kg/min
X 1
X 1
N/A
N/A

Push/Pull Liquid Recovery Rate, kg/min
X 1
X 1
N/A
N/A

Final Recovery Vacuum Level, kPa
X
X
N/A
X

Recycle Flow Rate, kg/min
N/A
X
X
N/A

Refrigerant Loss, kg
X 2
X
X
X 3

Residual Trapped Refrigerant, kg
X 3
X 2
X 2
X 2

Quantity of Refrigerant Processed at Rated Conditions, kg
N/A
X
X
N/A

1 For a recovery or recovery/recycle unit, one must rate either liquid refrigerant recovery rate or vapor refrigerant recovery rate or one can rate for both. If rating only one, the other shall be indicated by N/A, &#x201C;not applicable.&#x201D;
2 Mandatory rating if multiple refrigerants, oil separation or non-condensable purge are rated.
3 Mandatory rating for equipment tested for multiple refrigerants.
4 &#x201C;X&#x201D; denotes mandatory rating or equipment requirements.
5 &#x201C;N/A&#x201D; indicates &#x201C;Not Applicable&#x201D; for a parameter that does not have a rating.

Table 3—Contaminant Removal Ratings for Refrigerant Recovery and Recovery/Recycling Equipment 1 2

Contaminant
Type of equipment

Recovery
Recovery/recycling
Recycling
Systemdependentequipment

Moisture Content, ppm by weight
N/A 2
X 1
X
N/A

Chloride Ions, pass/fail
N/A
X
X
N/A

Acid Content, ppm by weight
N/A
X
X
N/A

High Boiling Residue, % by volume
N/A
X
X
N/A

Particulates/solids, pass/fail
N/A
X
X
N/A

Non-condensables, % by volume
N/A
X
X
N/A

1 &#x201C;X&#x201D; denotes mandatory rating.
2 &#x201C;N/A&#x201D; indicates &#x201C;Not Applicable&#x201D; for a parameter that does not have a rating.

Section 12. References

Listed here are all standards, handbooks, and other publications essential to the formation and implementation of the standard. All references in this appendix are considered as part of this standard.
&#x2022; UL 1963, Standard for Safety Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment, Fourth Edition (with revisions through October 13, 2013), dated June 1, 2011, (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

&#x2022; AHRI 110-2016, 2016 Standard for Air-Conditioning, Heating and Refrigerating Equipment Nameplate Voltages, copyright 2016 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

&#x2022; AHRI Standard 700-2015, Specifications for Refrigerants, Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute

&#x2022; IEC 60038 IEC Standard Voltages, Edition 7.0, 2009-06 (English version) (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

Section 13.0. Particulate Used in Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Sample

13.1 Particulate Specification

13.1.1 The particulate material (pm) will be a blend of 50 percent coarse air cleaner dust as received, and 50 percent retained on a 200-mesh screen. The coarse air cleaner dust is available from: AC Spark Plug Division; General Motors Corporation; Flint, Michigan.

13.1.2 Preparation of Particulate Materials. To prepare the blend of contaminant per ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 63.2-1996 (RA 2010), first wet screen a quantity of coarse air cleaner dust on a 200-mesh screen (particle retention 74 &#xB5;m). This is done by placing a portion of the dust on a 200-mesh screen and running water through the screen while stirring the dust with the fingers. The fine contaminant particles passing through the screen are discarded. The larger than 200-mesh particles collected on the screen are removed and dried for one hour at 110 &#xB0;C. The blend of standard contaminant is prepared by mixing 50 percent by weight of coarse air cleaner dust as received (after drying for one hour at 110 &#xB0;C) with 50 percent by weight of the larger than 200-mesh screened dust.

13.1.3 Particle Size Analysis. The coarse air cleaner dust as received and the blend used as the standard contaminant have the following approximate particle size analysis:

Table B1—Weight Percentage in Various &#xB5;m Size Ranges for Particle Size Analysis

Size range(&#xB5;m)
Asreceived(wt %)
Blend(wt %)

0-5
12
6

5-10
12
6

10-20
14
7

20-40
23
11

40-80
30
32

80-200
9
38

[81 FR 82383, Nov. 18, 2016]

### Appendix B4 to Subpart F of Part 82—Performance and Safety of Flammable Refrigerant Recovery and/or Recycling Equipment

This appendix is based on the Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute Standard 740-2016, Performance Rating of Refrigerant Recovery Equipment and Recovery/Recycling Equipment, and Underwriters Laboratories Standard 1963-2011 (Fourth Edition), Standard for Safety: Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment, including Supplement SB (added October 11, 2013), Requirements for Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment Intended for Use with a Flammable Refrigerant.
Section 1. Purpose

1.1 The purpose of this standard is to establish methods of testing for rating and evaluating the performance and safety of refrigerant recovery and/or recycling equipment and general equipment requirements (herein referred to as &#x201C;equipment&#x201D;) for contaminant or purity levels, capacity, speed and purge loss to minimize emission into the atmosphere of designated refrigerants, as well as safety for use with flammable refrigerants.
Section 2. Scope

2.1 This standard applies to equipment for recovering and/or recycling flammable single refrigerants, azeotropes, zeotropic blends, and their normal contaminants from refrigerant systems. This standard defines the test apparatus, test gas mixtures, sampling procedures, analytical techniques, and equipment construction that will be used to determine the performance and safety of refrigerant recovery and/or recycling equipment (hereinafter, &#x201C;equipment&#x201D;).
Section 3. Definitions

3.1 All terms in this appendix will follow the definitions in § 82.152 and Appendix B3 to Subpart F of Part 82 unless otherwise defined in this appendix.

3.2 All definitions used in UL 1963, including the definitions in Supplement SB, as applicable, are incorporated by reference, see § 82.168.
Section 4. Evaluation of Performance

4.1 Performance Ratings. All recovery and/or recycling equipment to be tested under this appendix must follow the procedures and meet all requirements established in Appendix B3 to Subpart F of Part 82 to determine the performance ratings in addition to the safety evaluation conducted under the rest of this appendix.

4.2 Safety. All recovery and/or recycling equipment to be tested under this appendix must follow the procedures and meet all requirements in Supplement SB (added October 11, 2013), Requirements for Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment Intended for Use with a Flammable Refrigerant in Underwriters Laboratories Standard 1963-2011 (Fourth Edition), Standard for Safety: Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
[81 FR 82390, Nov. 18, 2016]

### Appendix C to Subpart F of Part 82—Method for Testing Recovery Devices for Use With Small Appliances

Recovery Efficiency Test Procedure for Refrigerant Recovery Equipment Used on Small Appliances

The following test procedure is utilized to evaluate the efficiency of equipment designed to recover ozone depleting refrigerants (or any substitute refrigerant subject to the recycling rules promulgated pursuant to section 608 of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990) from small appliances when service of those appliances requires entry into the sealed refrigeration system or when those appliances are destined for disposal. This procedure is designed to calculate on a weight or mass basis the percentage of a known charge of CFC-12 refrigerant removed and captured from a test stand refrigeration system. Captured refrigerant is that refrigerant delivered to a container suitable for shipment to a refrigerant reclaimer plus any refrigerant remaining in the recovery system in a manner that it will be transferred to a shipping container after additional recovery operations.

The test stand refrigeration system required for this procedure is constructed with standard equipment utilized in currently produced household refrigerator and freezer products. The procedure also accounts for compressor oils that might be added to or removed from the test stand compressor or any compressor used in the recovery system.
I. Test Stand

Test stands are constructed in accordance with the following standards.

1. Evaporator—
5/16 in. outside dia. with 30 cu. in. volume.

2. Condenser—
1/4 in. outside dia. with 20 cu. in volume.

3. Suction line capillary heat exchanger—appropriate for compressor used.

4. An 800-950 Btu/hr high side case (rotary) compressor; or (depending on the test senario);

5. An 800-9500 Btu/hr low side case (reciprocating) compressor.

A person seeking to have its recovery system certified shall specify the compressors by manufacturer and model that are to be used in test stands constructed for evaluation of its equipment, and the type and quantity of compressor to be used in those compressors. Only a compressor oil approved for use by the compressor's manufacturer may be specified, and the quantity of compressor oil specified shall be an appropriate quantity for the type of oil and compressor to be used. In order to reduce the cost of testing, the person seeking certification of its recovery system may supply an EPA approved third party testing laboratory with test stands meeting these standards for use in evaluating its recovery system.
II. Test Conditions

Tests are to be conducted at 75 degrees F, plus or minus 2 degrees F (23.9 C &#xB1;1.1 C). Separate tests are conducted on both high side case compressor stands and low side case compressor stands. Separate tests are also conducted with the test stand compressor running during the recovery operation, and without the test stand compressor running during the recovery operation, to calculate the system's recovery efficiency under either condition.

These tests are to be performed using a representative model of all equipment used in the recovery system to deliver recovered refrigerant to a container suitable for shipment to a refrigerant reclaimer. The test stands are to be equipped with access valves permanently installed as specific by the recovery system's vendor to represent the valves used with that system in actual field operations.

A series of five (5) recovery operations are to be performed for each compressor scenario and a recovery efficiency is calculated based on the total quantity of refrigerant captured during all five (5) recoveries. Alternatively, at the request of the recovery system's vendor, a recovery efficiency is to be calculated for each recovery event. In this case, a statistically significant number of recovery operations are to be performed. Determination of what is a statistically significant number of recoveries is to be calculated as set out below. These individual recovery efficiencies are then averaged.

There are four (4) compressor scenarios to be tested. These are a high side case compressor in working condition; a high side case compressor in nonworking condition; a low side case compressor in working condition; and a low side case compressor in nonworking condition. Recovery efficiencies calculated for the two working compressor scenarios are to be averaged to report a working compressor performance. The two nonworking compressor efficiencies are also to be averaged to report a nonworking compressor performance.

If large scale equipment is required in the system to deliver recovered refrigerant to a refrigerant reclaimer (eg. carbon desorption equipment) and it is not possible to have that equipment evaluated under the procedure, the system's vendor shall obtain engineering data on the performance of that large scale equipment that will reasonably demonstrate the percentage refrigerant lost when processed by that equipment. That data will be supplied to any person required to evaluate the performance of those systems. The following procedure will also be modified as needed to determine the weight of refrigerant recovered from a test stand and delivered to a container for shipment to the large process equipment for further processing. The percentage loss documented to occur during processing is then to be applied to the recovery efficiencies calculated in this modified procedure to determine the overall capture efficiency for the entire system.

The following are definitions of symbols used in the test procedure.
Test Stand:

&#x201C;TSO&#x201D; means an original test stand weight.

&#x201C;TSC&#x201D; means a charged test stand weight.

Shipping Containers:

&#x201C;SCO&#x201D; means the original or empty weight of shipping container(s).

&#x201C;SCF&#x201D; means the final or full weight of shipping container(s).

Recover/Transfer System:

&#x201C;RSO&#x201D; means the original weight of a recovery/transfer system.

&#x201C;RSF&#x201D; means the final weight of a recovery/transfer system.

&#x201C;OL&#x201D; means the net amount of oil added/removed from the recovery device and/or transfer device between the beginning and end of the test for one compressor scenario.

Weighing steps are conducted with precision and accuracy of plus or minus 1.0 gram.

III. Test Procedure

1. Evacuate the test stand to 20 microns vacuum (pressure measured at a vacuum pump) for 12 hours.

2. Weigh the test stand (TSO).

3. If this is the first recovery operation being performed for a compressor scenario (or if a recovery efficiency is to be calculated for each recovery event), then weigh all devices used in the recovery system to deliver recovered refrigerant to a container suitable for shipment or delivery to a refrigerant reclaimer. Weigh only devices that can retain refrigerant in a manner that it will ultimately be transferred to a shipping container without significant release to the atmosphere (RSO).

4. Weigh final shipping containers (SCO).

5. Charge the test stand with an appropriate CFC-12 charge (either 6 oz. or 9 oz.).

6. Run the test stand for four (4) hours with 100% run time.

7. Turn off the test stand for twelve (12) hours. During this period evaporate all condensation that has collected on the test stand during step 6.

8. Weigh the test stand (TSC).

9. Recover CFC-12 from the test stand and perform all operations needed to transfer the recovered refrigerant to one of the shipping containers weighed in step 4. All recovery and transfer operations are to be performed in accordance with the operating instructions provided by the system's vendor. The compressor in the test stand is to remain &#x201C;off&#x201D; or be turned &#x201C;on&#x201D; during the recovery operation depending on whether the test is for a nonworking or working compressor performance evaluation. If a recovery efficiency is to be calculated for each recovery event, transfer the captured refrigerant to a shipping container and then skip to step 13. Otherwise continue. If the system allows for multiple recovery operations to be performed before transferring recovered refrigerant to a shipping container, the transfer operation can be delayed until either the maximum number of recovery operations allowed before a transfer is required have been performed, or the last of the five (5) recovery operations has been performed.

10. Perform any oil removal or oil addition operations needed to properly maintain the test stand and the devices used for recovery or transfer operations. Determine the net weight of the oil added or removed from the recovery device and/or transfer device. (OP1 for oil added, OP2 for oil removed).

11. Evacuate the test stand to 20 microns vacuum for 4 hours.

12. Return to step 2 unless five (5) recovery operations have been performed.

13. Weigh all final shipping containers that received recovered refrigerant (SCF).

14. Weigh the equipment weighed in step three (3) above (RSF). If a recovery efficiency is to be calculated for each recovery event, perform calculations and return to step one (1) for additional recoveries.
IV. Calculations

A. For Five (5) Consecutive Recoveries

Refrigerant Recoverable equals the summation of charged test stand weights minus original test stand weights.

Oil Loss equals the net weight of oil added to and removed from the recovery device and/or transfer device.

Refrigerant Recovered equals the final weight of shipping containers minus the initial weight of final shipping containers, plus final recovery system weight, minus original recovery system weight, plus the net value of all additions and removals of oil from the recovery and transfer devices.

n = number of shipping containers used.

Recovery Efficiency equals Refrigerant Recovered divided by Refrigerant Recoverable times 100%.

B. For Individual Recoveries

Refrigerant Recoverable equals the charged test stand weight minus the original test stand weight.

Refrigerant Recovered equals the final weight of the shipping container minus the initial weight of the shipping container plus the final weight of the recovery system minus the original recovery system weight.

Recovery Efficiency equals Refrigerant Recovered divided by Refrigerant Recoverable times 100 percent.

C. Calculation of a Statistically Significant Number of Recoveries

Where:

Nadd = the number of additional samples required to achieve 90% confidence.

sd = Standard deviation, or (X/(N&#x2212;1)
5)

X = Sample average

N = Number of samples tested

Number of samples
t for 90% confidence

2
6.814

3
2.920

4
2.353

5
2.132

6
2.015

7
1.943

8
1.895

9
1.860

10
1.833

Procedure:

1. Compute Nadd after completing two recoveries.

2. If Nadd>0, then run an additional test.

3. Re-compute Nadd. Continue to test additional samples until Nadd<0.
V. Test Procedure Approval and Certification

Each vendor of capture equipment for small appliances desiring certification will provide a representative model of its capture system and its recommended recovery procedures to an EPA approved third party laboratory for testing in accordance with this procedure. The third party laboratory will certify recovery systems that when tested in accordance with this procedure demonstrate a sufficient recovery efficiency to meet EPA regulatory requirements.

### Appendix D to Subpart F of Part 82—Standards for Becoming a Certifying Program for Technicians

a. Test Preparation. Technicians must pass an EPA-approved test, provided by an EPA-approved certifying program to be certified as a Type I technician. Organizations providing Type I certification only may choose either an on-site format or a mail-in format similar to what is permitted under the MVACs program.

Technicians must pass a closed-book, proctored test, administered in a secure environment, by an EPA-approved certifying program to be certified as a Type II or Type III technician.

Technicians must pass a closed-book, proctored test (or series of tests), administered in a secure environment, by an EPA-approved certifying program to be certified as a Universal technician. Mail-in format Type I tests cannot be used toward a Universal certification.

Each certifying program must assemble tests by choosing a prescribed subset from the EPA test bank. EPA will have a test bank with more questions than are needed for an individual test, which will enable the certifying program to generate multiple tests in order to discourage cheating. Each test must include 25 questions drawn from Group 1 and 25 questions drawn from each relevant technical Group. Tests for Universal technicians will include 100 questions (25 from Group 1 and 25 from each relevant technical Group). Universal tests may be taken all at once, or by combining passing scores on separate Type I, Type II, and Type III tests. Questions should be divided in order to sufficiently cover each topic within the Group.

Certifying programs must provide a paper hand-out or electronic form of communication to technicians after they have completed their certification test that contains the following information:
—Which certifying program is providing the testing;

—Contact information for the certifying program;

—The name and contact information of the proctor; and

—When they should expect to receive their score and, if they passed, their certification card.

Each certifying program must show a method of randomly choosing which questions will be on the tests. Multiple versions of the test must be used during each testing event. Test answer sheets must include the name and address of the applicant, the name and address of the certifying program, and the date and location at which the test was administered.

Training material accompanying mail-in Type I tests must not include sample test questions mimicking the language of the certification test. All mail-in material will be subject to review by EPA.

Certifying programs may charge individuals reasonable fees for the administration of the tests. EPA will publish a list of all approved certifying programs.

b. Proctoring. A certifying program for Type I (if in-person), Type II, Type III, and Universal technicians must designate at least one proctor registered for every 50 people taking tests at the same time at a given site.

The certification test for Type I (if taken as part of a Universal certification), Type II, Type III, and Universal technicians is a closed-book exam. The proctors must ensure that the applicants for certification do not use any notes or training materials during testing. Desks or work space must be placed in a way that discourages cheating. The space and physical facilities are to be conducive to continuous surveillance by the proctors and monitors during testing.

The proctor may not receive any benefit from the outcome of the testing other than a fee for proctoring. Proctors cannot know in advance which questions are on the tests they are proctoring.

Proctors are required to verify the identity of individuals taking the test by examining photo identification. Acceptable forms of identification include but are not limited to drivers' licenses, government identification cards, passports, and military identification.

Certifying programs for Type I technicians using the mail-in format, must take sufficient measures at the test site to ensure that tests are completed honestly by each technician. Each test for Type I certification must provide a means of verifying the identification of the individual taking the test. Acceptable forms of identification include but are not limited to drivers' licenses and passports.

c. Test Security. A certifying program must demonstrate the ability to ensure the confidentiality and security of the test questions and answer keys through strict accountability procedures. An organization interested in developing a technician certification program will be required to describe these test security procedures to EPA.

After the completion of a test, proctors must collect all test forms, answer sheets, scratch paper and notes. These items are to be placed in a sealed envelope.

d. Test Content. All Type I, Type II and Type III, certification tests will include 25 questions from Group I and 25 questions from Group II. Universal certification tests will include 25 questions from Group I and 75 questions from Group II (with 25 from each of the three sector-specific areas).

Group I will ask questions in the following areas:
1. Environmental impact of CFCs, HCFCs, and substitute refrigerants

2. Laws and regulations

3. Changing industry outlook

Group II will ask questions covering sector-specific (i.e., Type I, Type II, Type III) issues in the following areas:
4. Leak detection

5. Recovery Techniques

6. Safety

7. Shipping

8. Disposal

e. Grading. Tests must be graded objectively. Certifying programs must inform the applicant of their test results no later than 30 days from the date of the test. Type I certifying programs using the mail-in format must notify the applicants of their test results no later than 30 days from the date the certifying programs received the completed test and any required documentation.

The passing score for the closed-book Type I, Type II, Type III and Universal certification test is 70 percent. The passing score for Type I certification tests using the mail-in format is 84 percent.

f. Proof of Certification. Certifying programs must issue a standard wallet-sized identification card no later than 30 days from the date of the test. Type I certifying programs using mail-in formats must issue cards to certified technicians no later than 30 days from the date the certifying program receives the completed test and any required documentation.

Each wallet-sized identification card must include, at a minimum, the name of the certifying program including the date the certifying program received EPA approval, the name of the person certified, the type of certification, a unique number for the certified person that does not include a technician's social security number, and the following text:

[name of person] has successfully passed a [Type I, Type II, Type III and/or Universal—as appropriate] exam on how to responsibly handle refrigerants as required by EPA's National Recycling and Emissions Reduction Program.

g. Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements. Certifying programs must maintain records of the names and addresses of all individuals taking the tests, the scores of all certification tests administered, and the dates and locations of all tests administered. These records must be maintained indefinitely, unless transferred to another certifying program or EPA.

EPA must receive an activity report from all approved certifying programs by every January 30 and July 30, which covers the previous six months of certifications. The first report must be submitted following the first full six-month period for which the program has been approved by EPA. This report includes the pass/fail rate. If the certifying program believes a test bank question needs to be modified, information about that question should also be included.

Approved certifying programs will receive a letter of approval from EPA. Each testing center must display a copy of that letter at their place of business.

Approved technician certification programs that voluntarily plan to stop providing the certification test must forward all records required by this appendix and § 82.161 to another program currently approved by EPA in accordance with this appendix and with § 82.161. Approved technician certification programs that receive records of certified technicians from a program that no longer offers the certification test, and the program that is voluntarily withdrawing from being a technician certification program must inform EPA at the address listed in § 82.160 within 30 days of receiving or transferring these records. The notification must include the name and address of the program to which the records have been transferred. If another currently approved program willing to accept the records cannot be located, these records must be submitted to EPA at the address listed at § 82.160.

Technician certification programs that have had their certification revoked in accordance with § 82.169 must forward all records required by this appendix and § 82.161 to EPA at the address listed in § 82.160. Failure to do so is a violation of 40 CFR part 82, subpart F.

h. Additional Requirements. EPA may periodically inspect testing sites to ensure compliance with EPA regulations. If testing center discrepancies are found, they must be corrected within a specified time period. If discrepancies are not corrected, EPA may suspend or revoke the certifying program's approval. The inspections will include but are not limited to a review of the certifying program's provisions for test security, the availability of space and facilities to conduct the administrative requirements and ensure the security of the tests, the availability of adequate testing facilities and spacing of the applicants during testing, a review of the proper procedures regarding accountability, and that there is no evidence of misconduct on the part of the certifying programs, their representatives and proctors, or the applicants for certification.

If the certifying programs offer training or provide review materials to the applicants, these endeavors are to be considered completely separate from the administration of the certification test.
[81 FR 82390, Nov. 18, 2016]

### Appendix E to Subpart F of Part 82—Test Procedure for Leaks From Containers Holding Two Pounds or Less of Refrigerant for Use in an MVAC

This appendix is based on the California Air Resources Board (CARB) standard TP-503: Test Procedure for Leaks from Small Cans of Automotive Refrigerant, as amended on January 5, 2010; and CARB standard BP-A1: Balance Protocol for Gravimetric Determination of Sample Weights using a Precision Balance, as amended January 5, 2010.
Section 1. Applicability

This test procedure is used by manufacturers of containers holding two pounds or less of refrigerant for use in a motor vehicle air conditioner (MVAC) to determine the leakage rate of small containers of automotive refrigerant that are subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 82, subpart F. Specifically, this test procedure will specify the equipment, procedures, and calculations to determine if a container holding two pounds or less of refrigerant for use in an MVAC complies with the leakage rate specified in § 82.154(c)(2)(ii). All terms in this appendix will follow the definitions in § 82.152 unless otherwise defined in this appendix.

All containers holding two pounds or less of refrigerant for use in an MVAC must comply with other applicable codes and regulations such as local, state, or Federal safety codes and regulations.

This test procedure involves the use of materials under pressure and operations and should only be used by or under the supervision of those familiar and experienced in the use of such materials and operations. Appropriate safety precautions should be observed at all times while performing this test procedure.
Section 2. Principle and Summary of Test Procedure

This procedure is used to determine the leakage rate of containers holding two pounds or less of refrigerant for use in an MVAC (small cans). Testing will involve subjecting both full and partially empty cans in both upright and inverted positions at two temperatures: 73 &#xB0;F and 130 &#xB0;F.

Thirty small cans are tested under each condition for a total of 240 small cans tested. Small cans are brought to temperature stability, weighed, then stored for 30 days under specified conditions of temperature, orientation, and state of fill, then re-weighed. Leakage rate (grams/year) is estimated by (weight loss in grams) x 365/(days duration). The leakage rate is then compared to a standard of 3.00 grams/year to determine if a given small can complies with the leakage rate specified in § 82.154(c)(2)(ii).
Section 3. Biases and Interferences

3.1 Contaminants on the operator's hands can affect the weight of the small can and the ability of the small can to absorb moisture. To avoid contamination of the small can, the balance operator should wear gloves while handling the small cans.

3.2 Weight determinations can be interfered with by moisture condensing on the small can and by thermal currents generated by temperature differences between the small can and the room temperature. The small cans cool during discharge and could cause condensation. For these reasons, small cans must be equilibrated to balance room temperature for at least four hours before weighing.

3.3 Variations in the temperature, pressure, and humidity of the ambient air will cause variations in the buoyancy of the small can. These variations should typically be less than 25 mg for a small can. If the small can is not leaking at all, then the uncorrected weight changes will be within the range of 0 &#xB1; 25 mg, which is about ten percent of the 247 mg loss expected after thirty days for a can leaking at 3 g/yr. In that case buoyancy corrections can be omitted. If the absolute value of the uncorrected weight change exceeds 25 mg, then all calculations must be made using weights corrected for buoyancy based on the temperature, pressure, and humidity of the weighing room.

3.4 Some electronic balances are sensitive to the effects of small static charges. The small can should be placed directly on the balance pan, ensuring metal to metal contact. If the balance pan is not grounded, the small can and balance pan should be statically discharged before weighing.
Section 4. Sensitivity and Range

The mass of a full small can could range from roughly 50 g to 1000 g depending on the container capacity. A top loading balance, capable of a maximum weight measurement of not less than 1,000 g and having a minimum readability of 0.001 g, reproducibility and linearity of &#xB1; 0.002 g, must be used to perform mass measurements.
Section 5. Equipment

5.1 A top loading balance that meets the requirements of Section 4 above.

5.2 A NIST traceable working standard mass for balance calibration. A NIST traceable working standard mass for a balance linearity check. A reference mass to serve as a &#x201C;blank&#x201D; small can.

5.3 An enclosure capable of controlling the internal air temperature from 73 &#xB0;F &#xB1; 5 &#xB0;F, and an enclosure capable of controlling the internal air temperature to 130 &#xB0;F &#xB1; 5 &#xB0;F.

5.4 A temperature instrument capable of measuring the internal temperature of the temperature conditioning enclosures and the balance room with a sensitivity of &#xB1; 2 &#xB0;F.

5.5 A barometric pressure instrument capable of measuring atmospheric pressure at the location of the balance to within &#xB1; 0.02 inches of mercury.

5.6 A relative humidity measuring instrument capable of measuring the relative humidity (RH) at the location of the balance with a sensitivity of &#xB1; 2 percent RH.

5.7 A hose with appropriate fitting for dispensing refrigerant from the small can to a recovery machine.

5.8 A refrigerant recovery machine to collect the discharged refrigerant from small cans being tested.
Section 6. Calibration Procedures

6.1 Calibrations are applied to the balance and to the support equipment such as temperature, humidity, and pressure monitoring equipment. Procedures for calibration are not spelled out here. General calibration principals for the support equipment and the balance are described in Section 11, Quality Assurance/Quality Control. Detailed calibration procedures for measurements made using the balance are contained in Attachment A: &#x201C;Balance Protocol for Gravimetric Determination of Sample Weights using a Precision Balance.&#x201D;
Section 7. Small Can Preparation

7.1 Receive a batch of 240 small cans of one design to be tested. These may include several SKUs from different manufacturers if the container and valve combination are the same.

7.2 Clean small cans with Alkanox solution or equivalent and dry with a lint free towel.

7.3 Confirm that the sample ID sticker on the small can matches the sample ID on the chain of custody forms.

7.4 Select a reference mass similar to the weight of a full small can. If multiple sets of similar sized small cans are being tested, only one reference mass is needed; it can be used with all sets. Store the reference mass in the balance area.

7.5 Evacuate the contents of one half of the small cans (120 cans) into the refrigerant recovery machine using normal DIY dispensing procedures until each small can is approximately half full.

7.6 Select a reference mass similar to the weight of the half-full small can. If multiple sets of similar size small cans are being tested, only one reference mass is needed; it can be used with all sets. Store the reference mass in the balance area.
Section 8. Small Can Weighing

Weighing cans on the balance is done in accordance with Attachment A to this appendix. Attachment A describes how to conduct weight determinations including appropriate calibration and QC data. This section, &#x201C;Small Can Weighing,&#x201D; describes the overall process, not the details of how to use the balance.
Initial Weights

8.1 Put on gloves. Check the small cans for contamination.

8.2 Place the 240 small cans into a location where they can equilibrate to balance room temperature. Record the small can test IDs and the equilibration start time on the Small Can Test Data Forms available on EPA's Web site in sets of thirty, one form for each of the eight test conditions.

8.3 Let cans equilibrate for at least four hours.

8.4 Weigh the set of 240 small cans and the reference weights using Attachment A and log the results to the Balance Weighing Log Form available on EPA's Web site.

8.5 Transfer data from the Balance Weighing Log Form to the Small Can Test Data Form in sets of 30, one set for each of the eight conditions to be tested.
Thirty-Day Soak

8.6 Place each set of 30 small cans into the appropriate orientation and temperature for soaking:
30 full small cans—73 &#xB0;F, upright

30 full small cans—73 &#xB0;F, inverted

30 full small cans—130 &#xB0;F, upright

30 full small cans—130 &#xB0;F, inverted

30 half-full small cans—73 &#xB0;F, upright

30 half-full small cans—73 &#xB0;F, inverted

30 half-full small cans—130 &#xB0;F, upright

30 half-full small cans—130 &#xB0;F, inverted

8.7 Soak the small cans for 30 days undisturbed.
Final Weighing

8.8 Place the 240 small cans into a location where they can equilibrate to balance room temperature.

8.9 Let the small cans equilibrate for at least four hours.

8.10 Weigh the set of 240 small cans, the reference weights, and any additional sets of small cans using Attachment A.

8.11 Transfer data from the Balance Weighing Log Form to the corresponding Small Can Test Data Forms.
Section 9. Calculations

Corrections for Buoyancy

The calculations in this section are described in terms of &#x201C;weight.&#x201D; Mass is a property of the small can, whereas weight is a force due to the effects of buoyancy and gravity. Procedures for correcting the effect of buoyancy are given in Attachment B of this appendix. Ignoring buoyancy, i.e., using weight data uncorrected for buoyancy effects, is acceptable for a thirty day test if the absolute magnitude of the weight change is less than 25 mg. If the uncorrected weight change exceeds 25 mg for any small can, then correct all small can weights for buoyancy using the procedures in Attachment B before performing the calculations described below.
Calculation of Leak Rate

The emission rate in grams/day for each small can is calculated by subtracting the final weight from the initial weight and then dividing the weight difference by the time difference measured in days to the nearest hour (nearest 1/24 of a day). The emission rate in g/day is multiplied by 365 to determine emission rate in grams/yr. If the annual emission rate for any small can exceeds the entire small can contents, then the annual emission rate for that small can is adjusted to equal the entire small can contents/year (e.g., about 350 g/yr for a 12 ounce small can). The annual emission rate for the purpose of the test is calculated by averaging the 240 individual adjusted annual emission rates and rounding to two decimal places. The cans fail the test if the adjusted annual emission rate averaged over 240 cans is greater than 3.00 g/yr. The calculations are described below.

Loss rate for each small can
Eidaily = (Wifinal &#x2212; Wiinitial)/(Difinal &#x2212; Diinitial) g/day

Eiannual = 365 &#xD7; Eidaily g/year

Eiadjusted = Minimum of (Eiadjusted, Ci/year) g/yr

Where,

Ei = emission rate

Wifinal = weight of can i after soaking (grams)

Wiinitial = weight of can I before soaking (grams)

Difinal = date/time of final weight measurements (days)

Diinitial = date/time of initial weight measurements (days)

Ci = original factory mass of refrigerant in can i

Note: Date/Times are measured in days. Microsoft Excel stores dates and times in days, and the calculations can be made directly in Excel. If calculations are made manually, calculate serial days to the nearest hour for each date and time as follows:
D = Julday + Hour/24

Where,

Julday = serial day of the year: Jan 1 = 1, Jan 31 = 31, Feb 1 = 32, etc.

Hour = hour of day using 24-hour clock, 0 to 23

Calculate the average loss rate for the 240 small cans as follows:
Emean = [Sum (Eadjustedi), i = 1 to 240]/240

Section 10. Recordkeeping

During small can weighing, record the small can weights and date/times on the Balance Weighing Log Form. After each weighing session, transfer the measured weights and date/times from the Balance Weighing Log Form to the Small Can Test Data Form.

At the end of the test, complete the calculations described in Section 9, Calculations, and record the results on the Small Can Test Data Form.
Section 11. Quality Assurance/Quality Control

11.1 All temperature, pressure, and humidity instruments should be calibrated annually against NIST traceable laboratory standards. The main purpose of the NIST traceable calibration is to establish the absolute accuracy of the device. The instruments should also be checked periodically such as weekly, monthly, or quarterly against intermediate standards or against independent instruments. For example, a thermocouple can be checked weekly against a wall thermometer. A barometer or pressure gauge can be checked weekly by adjusting to sea level and comparing with local airport data. The main purpose of the frequent checks is to verify that the device has not failed in some way. This is especially important for electronic devices such as a digital thermometer, but even a liquid filled thermometer can develop a problem such as a bubble.

11.2 The balance should be serviced and calibrated annually by an independent balance service company or agency using NIST traceable reference masses. Servicing verifies accuracy and linearity, and the maintenance performed helps ensure that a malfunction does not develop.

11.3 The balance must also be calibrated and its linearity checked with working standards before and after each weighing session, or before and after each group of 24 small cans if more than 24 small cans are weighed in a session. Procedures for calibrating and using the balance, as well as recording balance data, are described in the accompanying balance weighing protocol. These procedures include zero checks, calibration checks, and reference mass checks. Procedures for calculating quality control data from those checks are described in Attachment A.

11.4 The small cans are cleaned then handled using gloves to prevent contamination. All equilibration and soaking must be done in a dust free area.
Section 12. Balance Protocol for Gravimetric Determination of Sample Weights Using a Precision Balance

12.1 Scope and application

This Protocol summarizes a set of procedures and tolerances for weighing objects in the range of 0 to 1,000 g with a resolution of 0.001 g. This protocol only addresses balance operations, it does not address project requirements for equilibration, sample hold time limits, sample collection etc.

12.2 Summary of method

The balance is zeroed and calibrated using procedures defined herein. Object weight determinations are conducted along with control object weight determinations, zero checks, calibration checks, sensitivity checks, and replicate weightings in a defined sequence designed to control and quantitatively characterize precision and accuracy.

12.3 Definitions

N/A.

12.4 Interferences

Object weights can be affected by temperature and relative humidity of their environment, air currents, static electricity, gain and loss of water vapor, gain or loss of and loss of volatile compounds directly from the sample or from contaminants such as finger prints, marker ink, and adhesive tape.

Contamination, transfer of material to or from the samples, is controlled by conducting operations inside a clean area dedicated to the purpose and having a filtered laminar air flow where possible; by wearing gloves while handling all samples and related balance equipment; by using forceps to handle small objects, and by keeping the balance and all related equipment inside the clean area.

Air currents are controlled by conducting weighing operations inside a closed chamber or glove box and by allowing the substrates to reach temperature and relative humidity equilibrium. The chamber is maintained at 40 percent relative humidity and 25 &#xB0;C by a continuous humidity and temperature control system. The temperature and RH conditions are recorded at least once per weighing sessions. Equilibration times for samples that are particularly sensitive to humidity or to loss of semi-volatiles species are specified by project requirements.

Static electric charges on the walls of the balance and the weighed objects, including samples, controls, and calibration weights, can significantly affect balance readings. Static is avoided by the operator ground himself and test objects as described in the balance manual.

12.5 Personnel health and safety

N/A

12.6 Equipment and supplies

&#x2022; Filtered, temperature and humidity controlled weighing chamber.

&#x2022; Precision Balance

&#x2022; Plastic forceps

&#x2022; Nylon fabric gloves.

&#x2022; Working calibration weights: ANSI Class 2, 1000g and 500 g

&#x2022; Working sensitivity weight: 50 mg

&#x2022; Reference objects: references are one or more objects that are typical of the objects to be weighed during a project, but that are stored permanently inside the balance glove box. Reference objects are labeled Test1, Test2, Test3, etc.

12.7 Reagents and standard

N/A

12.8 Sample collection, preservation, and storage

N/A. See relevant project requirements and SOPs.

12.9 Quality control

Data quality is controlled by specifying frequencies and tolerances for Zero, Calibration, Linearity, and Sensitivity checks. If checks do not meet tolerance criteria, then samples must be re-weighed. In addition, the procedures specify frequencies for Control Object Checks.

Data quality is quantitatively characterized using Zero Check, Calibration Check, and Control Check data. These data are summarized monthly in statistics and QC charts.

12.10 Calibration and standardization

The absolute accuracy of the balance is established by calibration against an ANSI Class 2, stainless steel working weight: 1000.000 g &#xB1; 0.0025 g. Linearity is established checking the midpoint against an ANSI Class 2 stainless steel working weight: 500.000 &#xB1; 0.0012 g. Sensitivity is established using and ANSI Class 2 stainless steel or aluminum working weight: 50 mg. Precision is checked by periodically checking zero, calibration, and reference object weights.

12.11 Procedure

12.11.1 Overview of Weighing Sequence

Weighing a series of substrates consists of performing the following procedures in sequence, while observing the procedures for handling and the procedures for reading the balance:
1. Initial Adjustment

2. Weigh eight samples

3. Zero Check

4. Weigh eight samples

5. Zero Check

6. Weigh eight samples

7. Calibration Check

8. Return to step 2.

9. If less than 24 cans are weighed, perform a final Calibration Check at the end of weighing.

This sequence is interrupted and samples are reweighed if QC check tolerances are not met. Each of these procedures along with procedures for handling and reading the balance are described below. The QC tolerances referred to in these procedures are listed in Table 1.

12.11.2 Handling

1. Never touch samples, weights, balance pans, etc. with bare hands. Wear powder free gloves to handle the weights, controls, and samples.

12.11.3 Reading the Balance

1. Close the door. Wait for the balance stabilization light to come on, and note the reading.

2. Watch the balance reading for 30 sec (use a clock). If the reading has not changed by more than 0.001 g from the reading noted in step 1, then record the reading observed at the end of the 30 sec period.

3. If the reading has drifted more than 0.001 g note the new balance reading and go to step 2.

4. If the balance reading is flickering back and forth between two consecutive values choose the value that is displayed more often than the other.

5. If the balance reading is flickering equally back and forth between two consecutive values choose the higher value.

12.11.4 Initial Adjustment
1. Empty the sample pan Close the door. Select Range 1000 g

2. Wait for a stable reading

3. Record the reading with QC code IZC (initial zero check)

4. Press the Tare button

5. Record the reading in the logbook with QC code IZA (initial zero adjust)

6. Place the 1,000 g working calibration weight on the balance pan

7. Wait for a stable reading.

8. Record the reading with QC code ICC (initial cal check)

9. Press the Calibrate button

10. Record the reading with QC code ICA (initial cal adjust)

11. Remove the calibration weight.

12. Wait for a stable reading.

13. Record the reading with QC code IZC.

14. If the zero reading exceeds &#xB1; 0.002 g, go to step 4.

15. Place the 500 g calibration weight on the balance pan

16. After a stable reading, record the reading with QC code C500. Do not adjust the balance.

17. Add the 0.050 g weight to 500 g weight on the balance pan.

18. After a stable reading, record the reading with QC code C0.05. Do not adjust the balance.

19. Weigh reference object TEST1, record reading with QC code T1.

20. Weigh the reference object TEST2, TEST3, etc. that is similar in weight to the samples that you will be weighing. Record with QC code T2, T3, etc.

12.11.5 Zero Check
1. Empty the sample pan. Close the door.

2. Wait for a stable reading

3. Record the reading with QC code ZC

4. If the ZC reading is less than or equal to the zero adjustment tolerance shown in Table 1, return to weighing and do not adjust the zero. If the ZC reading exceeded the zero adjustment tolerance, proceed with steps 5 through 7.

5. Press the Tare button

6. Record the reading in the logbook with QC code ZA.

7. If the ZC reading exceeded the zero re-weigh tolerance, change the QC code recorded in step 3 from ZC to FZC. Then enter a QC code of FZ into the QC code column of all samples weights obtained after the last valid zero check. Re- weigh all of those samples, recording new data in new rows of the logbook.

12.11.6 Calibration Check
1. First, follow procedures for Zero Check. If the ZC was within tolerance, tare the balance anyway (i.e., follow steps 5 and 6 of the Zero Check method)

2. Place the 1,000 g working calibration weight on the sample pan, wait for a stable reading.

3. Record the reading with QC code C1000

4. If the C1000 reading is less than or equal to the calibration adjustment tolerances, skip steps 5 through 8 and proceed to step 9. Do not adjust the calibration.

5. If the C100 reading exceeded the calibration adjust tolerance, press the Calibrate button.

6. Record the reading in the logbook with QC code CA

7. Perform a Zero Check (follow the Zero Check method)

8. If the C1000 reading exceeded the calibration re-weigh tolerance, change the code recorded in step 3 from C1000 to FC1000. Enter FC into the QC column for all sample weights obtained after the last valid calibration check. Re-weigh all of those samples, recording new data in new rows of the logbook.

12.11.7 Replicate Weighing Check

1. This protocol does not include reweigh samples to obtain replicates. The projects for which this protocol is intended already include procedures multiple weightings of each sample.

Table 1—QC Tolerances and Frequencies for Balance Protocol

Reading Tolerance:

0.001 g, stable for 30 sec.

Adjustment Tolerances:

Zero:
&#x2212;0.003 to +0.003 g.

Calibration:
999.997 to 1000.003 g.

Controls:
none.

Replicates:
none.

Re-weigh Tolerances:

Zero:
&#x2212;0.005 to +0.005 g.

Calibration:
999.995 to 1000.005 g.

Controls:
none.

Replicates:
none.

Reference Objects:

Test 1—A reference object weighing about 400 g.

Test 2—A reference object weighing about 200 g.

Test 3—A reference object weighing about 700 g.

QC Frequencies:

Zero Checks:
once per 8 samples.

Calibration Checks:
once per 24 samples.

Repeat weighings:
none (test method includes replicate determinations).

Control objects:
once per weighing session.

12.12 Data analysis and calculations

For Zero Checks, let Z equal the recorded Zero Check value. For control checks let T1, T2, etc. equal the recorded value for control object Test 1, Test 2, etc. For Calibration Checks, let C1000 equal C1000 reading minus 1000, M = C500—500, S = .C.050—C500—.050. For Replicate Checks, let D equal the loss that occurred between the first and second measurements. In summary:
T1 = T1

T2 = T2

T3 = T3

Z = ZC—0

C = C1000—1000

M = C500—500

G = C050—C500—.050

Tabulate the mean and standard deviation for each of the following: Z, C, M, G. T1, T2, T3. Depending on the number of operators using the balance and the number of protocols in use, analyze the data by subcategories to determine the effects of balance operator and protocol. Each of these standard deviations, SZ, SC, etc. is an estimate of the precision of single weight measurement.

For Z, C, M, and G, check the mean value for statistical difference from 0. If the means are statistically different than zero, troubleshooting to eliminate bias may be called for. For Z, C, M, G, T1, T2, T3, check that the standard deviations are all comparable. If there are systematic differences, then troubleshooting to eliminate the problem may be called for.

Note that the precision of a weight gain, involves two weight determinations, and therefore is larger than S by a factor of sqrt(2). On the other hand replicate weighings improves the precision of the determinations by a factor of sqrt(N). If N = 2, i.e., duplicates, then the factors cancel each other.

To estimate the overall uncertainty in a weight determination, a conservative estimate might be to combine the imprecision contributed by the zero with the imprecision contributed by the calibration.
U = Sqrt(SZ
2 + SC
2)

The uncertainty in a weight gain from N replicates is then given by:
Ugain = Sqrt(2) &#xD7; Sqrt(SZ
2 + SC
2)/Sqrt(N)

But due to the balance adjustment and reweigh tolerances, we expect SZ to approximately equal SC, to approximately equal SM, etc. tolerances, so that the equation above becomes:
Ugain = 2 &#xD7; S/Sqrt(N)

Where S is any individual standard deviation; or better, a pooled standard deviation.

12.13 Method performance

The data necessary to characterize the accuracy and precision of this method are still being collected. The method is used primarily to weigh objects before and after a period of soaking to determine weight loss by subtraction. Given the reweigh tolerances, we expect that the precision of weight gain determinations will be on the order of 0.006 g at the 1-sigma level. Bias in the weight gain determination, due to inaccuracy of the calibration weight and to fixed non-linearity of the balance response is on the order 0.005 percent of the gain.

12.14 Pollution prevention

When discharging half the can contents during can preparation, do not vent the contents of the small can to the atmosphere. Use an automotive recovery machine to transfer small can contest to a recovery cylinder.

12.15 Waste management

Dispose of the contents of the recycle cylinder through a service that consolidates waste for shipment to EPA certified facilities for reclaiming or destruction.
Section 13. Compensation of Weight Data for Buoyancy and Gravity Effects

13.1 Gravity

Variations in gravity are important only when weighing objects under different gravitational fields, i.e., at different locations or at different heights. Since the balance procedures calibrate the balance against a known mass (the calibration &#x201C;weight&#x201D;) at the same location where sample objects are weighed, there is no need to correct for location. Although both the sample and the calibration weight are used at the same location, there will be a difference in the height of the center of gravity of the sample object (small can) and the center of gravity of the reference mass (calibration weight). However, this difference in height is maintained during both the initial weights and final weights, affecting the initial and final weights by the same amount, and affecting the scale of the weight difference by only a few ppm. In any event, the magnitude of this correction is on the order of 0.3 ug per kg per mm of height difference. A difference on the order of 100 mm would thus yield a weight difference of about 0.03 mg, which is insignificant compared to our balance resolution which is 0.001 g or 1 mg.

Based on the discussion above, no corrections for gravity are necessary when determining weight changes in small cans.

13.2 Buoyancy

Within a weighing session, the difference in density between the sample object and the calibration weight will cause the sample object weight value to differ from its mass value due to buoyancy. For a 1-liter object in air at 20 &#xB0;C and at 1 atm, the buoyant force is about 1.2 g. The volume of a 1 kg object with a density of 8 g/cm
3 (e.g., a calibration weight), is about 0.125 liters, and the buoyancy force is about 0.15 g. Variations in air density will affect both of these values in proportion. The net value being affected by variations in air density is thus on the order of 1.2 &#x2212; 0.15 = 1.05 g. Air density can vary up or down by 2 percent or more due to variations in barometric pressure, temperature, and humidity. The buoyancy force will then vary up or down by 0.02 g, or 20 mg. This is significant compared to the weight change expected after one week for a can leaking at 3 grams per year, which is 57 mg.

Based on the discussion above, buoyancy corrections must be made.

Variables measured or calculated:
Vcan = volume of can (cm
3). Estimate to within 10 percent by measuring the can dimensions or by water displacement. Error in the can volume will cause an error in the absolute amount of the buoyancy force, but will have only a small effect on the change in buoyancy force from day to day.

Wcan = nominal weight of a can (g), used to calculate the nominal density of the can.

&#x3C1;can = nominal density of a small can (g/cm
3). The nominal values can be applied to corrections for all cans. It is not necessary to calculate a more exact density for each can. Calculate once for a full can and once for a half full can as follows:

&#x3C1;can = Wcan /Vcan

T = Temperature in balance chamber (degrees Celsius).

RH = Relative humidity in balance chamber (expressed a number between 0 and 100).

Pbaro = Barometric pressure in balance chamber (millibar). Use actual pressure, NOT pressure adjusted to sea level.

&#x3C1;air = density of air in the balance chamber (g/cm
3). Calculate using the following approximation:

&#x3C1;air = 0.001*[0.348444*Pbaro&#x2212;(RH/100) &#xD7; (0.252 &#xD7; T&#x2212;2.0582)]/(T + 273.15)

&#x3C1;ref = the reference density of the calibration weight (g/cm
3). Should be 8.0 g/cm
3.

Equation to correct for buoyancy: Wcorrected = Wreading &#xD7; (1—&#x3C1;air/&#x3C1;ref)/(1—&#x3C1;air/&#x3C1;can)

[81 FR 82392, Nov. 18, 2016]

============================================================
SOURCE: 40 CFR Part 82 Subpart A — Production and Consumption Controls
URL: https://www.ecfr.gov/api/versioner/v1/full/2026-04-07/title-40.xml?part=82&subpart=A
FETCHED: 2026-04-09T05:52:55.169Z
============================================================

### Subpart A—Production and Consumption Controls

Source:60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

### § 82.1 Purpose and scope.

(a) The purpose of the regulations in this subpart is to implement the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and sections 602, 603, 604, 605, 606, 607, 614 and 616 of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, Public Law 101-549. The Protocol and section 604 impose limits on the production and consumption (defined as production plus imports minus exports, excluding transhipments and used controlled substances) of certain ozone-depleting substances, according to specified schedules. The Protocol also requires each nation that becomes a Party to the agreement to impose certain restrictions on trade in ozone-depleting substances with non-Parties.

(b) This subpart applies to any person that produces, transforms, destroys, imports or exports a controlled substance or imports or exports a controlled product.
[63 FR 41642, Aug. 4, 1998]

### § 82.2 [Reserved]

### § 82.3 Definitions for class I and class II controlled substances.

As used in this subpart, the term:

Administrator means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or his or her authorized representative. Starting May 18, 2020, reports and petitions that are available to be submitted through the Central Data Exchange, as well as any related supporting documents, must be submitted through that tool. Any other reports and communications shall be submitted to Stratospheric Protection Manager, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Mail Code: 6205T, Washington, DC 20460.

Aircraft halon bottle means a vessel used as a component of an aircraft fire suppression system containing halon-1301 or halon-1211 approved under FAA rules for installation in a certificated aircraft.

Appliance means any device which contains and uses a refrigerant and which is used for household or commercial purposes, including any air conditioner, refrigerator, chiller, or freezer.

Applicator means the person who applies methyl bromide.

Approved critical use(s) means those uses of methyl bromide listed in Column A of appendix L to this subpart as further clarified in Columns B and C of that appendix.

Approved critical user(s) means a person who:

(1) For the applicable control period, applied to EPA for a critical use exemption or is a member of a consortium that applied to EPA for a critical use exemption for a use and location of use that was included in the U.S. nomination, authorized by a Decision of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol, and then finally determined by EPA in a notice-and-comment rulemaking to be an approved critical use; and

(2) Has an area in the applicable location of use that requires methyl bromide fumigation because the person reasonably expects that the area will be subject to a limiting critical condition during the applicable control period.

Article 5 allowances means the allowances apportioned under §§ 82.9(a), 82.11(a)(2), and 82.18(a).

Baseline consumption allowances means the consumption allowances apportioned under §§ 82.6 and 82.19.

Baseline production allowances means the production allowances apportioned under §§ 82.5 and 82.17.

Batch emission episode means a discrete venting episode associated with a vessel in a process; a vessel may have more than one batch emission episode. For example, a displacement of vapor resulting from the charging of a vessel with a feed material will result in a discrete emission episode that will last through the duration of the charge and will have an average flow rate equal to the rate of the charge. If the vessel is then heated, there will also be another discrete emission episode resulting from the expulsion of expanded vapor. Other emission episodes also may occur from the same vessel and other vessels in the process, depending on process operations.

Batch process or batch operation means a noncontinuous operation involving intermittent or discontinuous feed into equipment, and, in general, involves the emptying of the equipment after the batch operation ceases and prior to beginning a new operation. Addition of raw material and withdrawal of product do not occur simultaneously in a batch operation.

Beijing Amendments means the Montreal Protocol, as amended at the Eleventh Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol in Beijing in 1999.

Byproduct (for the purpose of this subpart only) means a chemical that is produced coincidentally during the production of another chemical.

Calculated level means the weighted amount of a controlled substance determined by multiplying the amount (in kilograms) of the controlled substance by that substance's ozone depletion potential (ODP) weight listed in appendix A or appendix B to this subpart.

Central Data Exchange means EPA's centralized electronic document receiving system, or its successors.

Class I refers to the controlled substances listed in appendix A to this subpart.

Class II refers to the controlled substances listed in appendix B to this subpart.

Commodity Owner, Shipper or their Agent means the person requesting that an applicator use methyl bromide for quarantine or preshipment applications.

Completely destroy means to cause the expiration of a controlled substance at a destruction efficiency of 98 percent or greater, using one of the destruction technologies approved by the Parties.

Confer means to shift the essential-use allowances obtained under § 82.8 from the holder of the unexpended essential-use allowances to a person for the production of a specified controlled substance.

Consortium means an organization representing a group of methyl bromide users that has collectively submitted an application for a critical use exemption on behalf of all members of the group. The members of a consortium shall be determined on the basis of the rules established by the organization. Members may either be required to formally join the consortium (e.g., by submitting an application or paying dues) or may automatically become members upon meeting particular criteria (e.g., a grower of a specific crop in a particular region).

Consumption means the production plus imports minus exports of a controlled substance (other than transhipments, or used controlled substances).

Consumption allowances means the privileges granted by this subpart to produce and import controlled substances; however, consumption allowances may be used to produce controlled substances only in conjunction with production allowances. A person's consumption allowances for class I substances are the total of the allowances obtained under §§ 82.6 and 82.7 as may be modified under § 82.12 (transfer of allowances). A person's consumption allowances for class II controlled substances are the total of the allowances obtained under §§ 82.19 and 82.20, as may be modified under § 82.23.

Continuous process or operation means a process where the inputs and outputs flow continuously throughout the duration of the process. Continuous processes are typically steady state.

Control period means the period from January 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992, and each twelve-month period from January 1 through December 31, thereafter.

Controlled product means a product that contains a controlled substance listed as a Class I, Group I or II substance in appendix A to this subpart. Controlled products include, but are not limited to, those products listed in appendix D to this subpart.

Controlled products belong to one or more of the following six categories of products:

(1) Automobile and truck air conditioning units (whether incorporated in vehicles or not);

(2) Domestic and commercial refrigeration and air-conditioning/heat pump equipment (whether containing controlled substances as a refrigerant and/or in insulating material of the product), e.g. Refrigerators, Freezers, Dehumidifiers, Water coolers, Ice machines, Air-conditioning and heat pump units;

(3) Aerosol products, except medical aerosols;

(4) Portable fire extinguishers;

(5) Insulation boards, panels and pipe covers;

(6) Pre-polymers.

Controlled substance means any substance listed in appendix A or appendix B to this subpart, whether existing alone or in a mixture, but excluding any such substance or mixture that is in a manufactured product other than a container used for the transportation or storage of the substance or mixture. Thus, any amount of a listed substance in appendix A or appendix B to this subpart that is not part of a use system containing the substance is a controlled substance. If a listed substance or mixture must first be transferred from a bulk container to another container, vessel, or piece of equipment in order to realize its intended use, the listed substance or mixture is a &#x201C;controlled substance.&#x201D; The inadvertent or coincidental creation of insignificant quantities of a listed substance in appendix A or appendix B to this subpart; during a chemical manufacturing process, resulting from unreacted feedstock, from the listed substance's use as a process agent present as a trace quantity in the chemical substance being manufactured, or as an unintended byproduct of research and development applications, is not deemed a controlled substance. Controlled substances are divided into two classes, Class I in appendix A to this subpart, and Class II listed in appendix B to this subpart. Class I substances are further divided into eight groups, Group I, Group II, Group III, Group IV, Group V, Group VI, Group VII, and Group VIII, as set forth in appendix A to this subpart.

Copenhagen Amendments means the Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer, as amended at the Fourth Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol in Copenhagen in 1992.

Critical use means a circumstance in which the following two conditions are satisfied:

(1) There are no technically and economically feasible alternatives or substitutes for methyl bromide available that are acceptable from the standpoint of environment and health and are suitable to the crops and circumstances involved, and

(2) The lack of availability of methyl bromide for a particular use would result in significant market disruption.

Critical use allowance (CUA) means the privilege granted by this subpart to produce or import one (1) kilogram of methyl bromide for an approved critical use during the specified control period. A person's critical use allowances are the total of the allowances obtained under § 82.8(c) as may be modified under § 82.12 (transfer of allowances).

Critical use allowance for pre-plant uses means the privilege granted by this subpart to produce or import one (1) kilogram of methyl bromide solely for an approved critical use in pre-plant categories specified in appendix L to this subpart during the specified control period. A person's critical use allowances for pre-plant uses are the total of the allowances obtained under § 82.8(c) as may be modified under § 82.12 (transfer of allowances).

Critical use allowance for post-harvest uses means the privilege granted by this subpart to produce or import one (1) kilogram of methyl bromide solely for an approved critical use in post-harvest categories specified in appendix L to this subpart during the specified control period. A person's critical use allowances for post-harvest uses are the total of the allowances obtained under § 82.8(c) as may be modified under § 82.12 (transfer of allowances).

Critical use allowance (CUA) holder means an entity to which EPA allocates a quantity of critical use allowances as reflected in § 82.8(c) or who receives a quantity of critical use allowances through a transfer under § 82.12.

Critical use methyl bromide means the class I, Group VI controlled substance produced or imported through expending a critical use allowance or that portion of inventory produced or imported prior to the January 1, 2005 phaseout date that is sold only for approved critical uses.

Destruction means the expiration of a controlled substance to the destruction and removal efficiency actually achieved, unless considered completely destroyed as defined in this section. Such destruction might result in a commercially useful end product, but such usefulness would be secondary to the act of destruction. Destruction must be achieved using one of the following controlled processes approved by the Parties to the Protocol:

(1) Liquid injection incineration;

(2) Reactor cracking;

(3) Gaseous/fume oxidation;

(4) Rotary kiln incineration;

(5) Cement kiln;

(6) Radio frequency plasma;

(7) Municipal waste incinerators (only for the destruction of foams);

(8) Nitrogen plasma arc;

(9) Portable plasma arc;

(10) Argon plasma arc;

(11) Chemical reaction with hydrogen and carbon dioxide;

(12) Inductively coupled radio frequency plasma;

(13) Microwave plasma;

(14) Porous thermal reactor;

(15) Gas phase catalytic de-halogenation;

(16) Superheated steam reactor; or

(17) Thermal reaction with methane.

Difficult-to-monitor means the equipment piece may not be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters (7 feet) above a support surface or it is not accessible in a safe manner when it is in controlled substance service.

Distributor of methyl bromide means the person directly selling a class I, Group VI controlled substance to an applicator.

Dual mechanical seal pump and dual mechanical seal agitator means a pump or agitator equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system where the barrier fluid is not in light liquid service; each barrier fluid system is equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both; and meets the following requirements:

(1) Each dual mechanical seal system is operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is at all times (except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction) greater than the pump or agitator stuffing box pressure; or

(2) Equipped with a barrier fluid degassing reservoir that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or connected by a closed-vent system to a control device; or

(3) Equipped with a closed-loop system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream.

Equipment (for the purposes of § 82.25 only) means each pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, connector, and instrumentation system in controlled substance service for a process listed in § 82.25(b)(2); and any destruction units or closed-vent systems to which corresponding processes are vented.

Essential Metered Dose Inhaler (Essential MDI) means metered dose inhalers for the treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, approved by the Food and Drug Administration or by another Party's analogous health authority before December 31, 2000, and considered to be essential by the Party where the MDI product will eventually be sold. In addition, if the MDI product is to be sold in the U.S., the active moiety contained in the MDI must be listed as essential at 21 CFR 2.125(e).

Essential-Use Allowances means the privileges granted by § 82.4(n) to produce class I substances, as determined by allocation decisions made by the Parties to the Montreal Protocol and in accordance with the restrictions delineated in the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990.

Essential-Use Chlorofluorocarbons (Essential-use CFCs) are the CFCs (CFC-11, CFC-12, or CFC-114) produced under the authority of essential-use allowances and not the allowances themselves. Essential-use CFCs include CFCs imported or produced by U.S. entities under the authority of essential-use allowances for use in essential metered dose inhalers, as well as CFCs imported or produced by non-U.S. entities under the authority of privileges granted by the Parties and the national authority of another country for use in essential metered dose inhalers.

Essential-Uses means those uses of controlled substances designated by the Parties to the Protocol to be necessary for the health and safety of, or critical for the functioning of, society; and for which there are no available technically and economically feasible alternatives or substitutes that are acceptable from the standpoint of environment and health. Beginning January 1, 2000 (January 1, 2002 for methyl chloroform) the essential use designations for class I substances must be made in accordance with the provisions of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990.

Export means the transport of virgin or used controlled substances from inside the United States or its territories to persons outside the United States or its territories, excluding United States military bases and ships for on-board use.

Export production allowances means the privileges granted by § 82.18(b) to produce HCFC-141b for export following the phaseout of HCFC-141b on January 1, 2003.

Exporter means the person who contracts to sell controlled substances for export or transfers controlled substances to his affiliate in another country.

Facility means one or more plants at the same location owned by or under common control of the same person.

Foreign state means an entity which is recognized as a sovereign nation or country other than the United States of America.
1

1 Taiwan is not considered a foreign state.

Foreign state complying with, when referring to a foreign state not Party to the 1987 Montreal Protocol, the London Amendment, the Copenhagen Amendment, or the Beijing Amendment, means any foreign state that has been determined to be complying with the 1987 Montreal Protocol or the specified amendments by a Meeting of the Parties.

Foreign state not Party to or Non-Party means a foreign state that has not deposited instruments of ratification, acceptance, or other form of approval with the Directorate of the United Nations Secretariat, evidencing the foreign state's ratification of the provisions of the 1987 Montreal Protocol, the London Amendment, the Copenhagen Amendment, or the Beijing Amendment, as specified.

Halon bank means a facility run by a national government or privately run and authorized by a national government that collects and stores previously-recovered halon for reuse at a later date.
granted to a HCFC-141b formulator; an agency, department, or instrumentality of the U.S.; or a non-governmental space vehicle entity by this subpart to order production of or to import HCFC-141b, as determined in accordance with § 82.16(h).

Heel means the amount of a controlled substance that remains in a container after it is discharged or off-loaded (that is no more than ten percent of the volume of the container).

Hydrostatic testing means checking a gas pressure vessel for leaks or flaws. The vessel is filled with a nearly incompressible liquid—usually water or oil—and examined for leaks or permanent changes in shape.

Import means to land on, bring into, or introduce into, or attempt to land on, bring into, or introduce into any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States whether or not such landing, bringing, or introduction constitutes an importation within the meaning of the customs laws of the United States, with the following exemptions:

(1) Off-loading used or excess controlled substances or controlled products from a ship during servicing,

(2) Bringing controlled substances into the U.S. from Mexico where the controlled substance had been admitted into Mexico in bond and was of U.S. origin, and

(3) Bringing a controlled product into the U.S. when transported in a consignment of personal or household effects or in a similar non-commercial situation normally exempted from U.S. Customs attention.

Importer means any person who imports a controlled substance or a controlled product into the United States. &#x201C;Importer&#x201D; includes the person primarily liable for the payment of any duties on the merchandise or an authorized agent acting on his or her behalf. The term also includes, as appropriate:

(1) The consignee;

(2) The importer of record;

(3) The actual owner; or

(4) The transferee, if the right to draw merchandise in a bonded warehouse has been transferred.

In controlled substance service means that a piece of equipment that engages in an activity listed in § 82.25(b)(2), either contains or contacts a controlled substance that is a liquid or gas, and contains at least 5 percent by weight of a controlled substance.

In gas and vapor service means that a piece of equipment in regulated material service contains a gas or vapor at operating conditions.

In heavy liquid service means that a piece of equipment in regulated material service is not in gas and vapor service or in light liquid service.

In light liquid service means that a piece of equipment in regulated material service contains a liquid that meets the following conditions:

(1) The vapor pressure of one or more of the compounds is greater than 0.3 kilopascals at 20 &#xB0;C;

(2) The total concentration of the pure compounds constituents having a vapor pressure greater than 0.3 kilopascals at 20 &#xB0;C is equal to or greater than 20 percent by weight of the total process stream; and

(3) The fluid is a liquid at operating conditions.

Note 1 to definition of &#x201C;in light liquid service&#x201D;:

Vapor pressures may be determined by standard reference texts or ASTM D-2879.

In vacuum service means that equipment is operating at an internal pressure which is at least 5 kilopascals below ambient pressure.

Individual shipment means the kilograms of a controlled substance for which a person may make one (1) U.S. Customs entry, as identified in the non-objection letter from the Administrator under §§ 82.13(g) and 82.24(c).

Interstate commerce means the distribution or transportation of any controlled substance between one state, territory, possession or the District of Columbia, and another state, territory, possession or the District of Columbia, or the sale, use or manufacture of any controlled substance in more than one state, territory, possession or District of Columbia. The entry points for which a controlled substance is introduced into interstate commerce are the release of a controlled substance from the facility in which the controlled substance was manufactured, the entry into a warehouse from which the domestic manufacturer releases the controlled substance for sale or distribution, and at the site of United States customs clearance.

Isolated intermediate means a product of a process that is stored before subsequent processing. An isolated intermediate is usually a product of chemical synthesis. Storage of an isolated intermediate marks the end of a process. Storage occurs at any time the intermediate is placed in equipment used solely for storage.

Limiting critical condition means the regulatory, technical, and economic circumstances listed in column C of appendix L to this subpart that establish conditions of critical use for methyl bromide in a fumigation area.

Location of use means the geographic area (such as a state, region, or the entire United States) covered by an application for a critical use exemption in which the limiting critical condition may occur.

London Amendments means the Montreal Protocol, as amended at the Second Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol in London in 1990.

Manufactured, for an appliance, means the date upon which the appliance's refrigerant circuit is complete, the appliance can function, the appliance holds a full refrigerant charge, and the appliance is ready for use for its intended purposes; and for a pre-charged appliance component, means the date that such component is completely produced by the original equipment manufacture, charged with refrigerant, and is ready for initial sale or distribution in interstate commerce.

Montreal Anniversary amendments means the Montreal Protocol, as amended at the Ninth Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol in Montreal in 1997.

Montreal Protocol means the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, a protocol to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer, including adjustments adopted by the Parties thereto and amendments that have entered into force.

1987 Montreal Protocol means the Montreal Protocol, as originally adopted by the Parties in 1987.

No external shaft pump and no external shaft agitator means any pump or agitator that is designed with no externally actuated shaft penetrating the pump or agitator housing.

Non-Objection notice means the privilege granted by the Administrator to import a specific individual shipment of a controlled substance in accordance with §§ 82.13(g)(2), (3), and (5) and 82.24(c)(3), (4), and (6).

Operating scenario means any specific operation of a process and includes the information specified in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this definition for each process. A change or series of changes to any of these elements, except for paragraph (4) of this definition, constitutes a different operating scenario.

(1) A description of the process, the specific process equipment used, and the range of operating conditions for the process.

(2) An identification of related process vents, their associated emissions episodes and durations, and calculations and engineering analyses to show the annual uncontrolled emissions of controlled substances from the process vent.

(3) The control or destruction units used, as applicable, including a description of operating and/or testing conditions for any associated destruction unit.

(4) The process vents (including those from other processes) that are simultaneously routed to the control or destruction unit(s).

(5) The applicable monitoring requirements and any parametric level that assures destruction or removal for all emissions routed to the control or destruction unit.

Party means a foreign state that has deposited instruments of ratification, acceptance, or other form of approval with the Directorate of the United Nations Secretariat, evidencing the foreign state's ratification of the provisions of the 1987 Montreal Protocol, the London Amendment, the Copenhagen Amendment, or the Beijing Amendment, as specified. (For ratification status, see: http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php.)

Person means any individual or legal entity, including an individual, corporation, partnership, association, state, municipality, political subdivision of a state, Indian tribe; any agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States; and any officer, agent, or employee thereof.

Plant means any process equipment (e.g., reactor, distillation column) used to convert raw materials or feedstock chemicals into controlled substances or use controlled substances in the production of other chemicals.

Preshipment applications, with respect to class I, Group VI controlled substances, are those non-quarantine applications applied within 21 days prior to export to meet the official requirements of the importing country or existing official requirements of the exporting country. Official requirements are those which are performed by, or authorized by, a national plant, animal, environmental, health or stored product authority.

Process (for the purposes of § 82.25 only) means all equipment that collectively functions to engage in an activity listed in § 82.25(b)(2). A process may consist of one or more unit operations. For the purposes of § 82.25, process includes any, all, or a combination of reaction, recovery, separation, purification, or other activity, operation, manufacture, or treatment which are used to engage in an activity listed in § 82.25(b)(2). For a continuous process, cleaning operations may be considered part of the process at the discretion of the facility. For a batch process, cleaning operations are part of the process. Ancillary activities are not considered a process or part of any process under § 82.25. Ancillary activities include boilers and incinerators, chillers and refrigeration systems, and other equipment and activities that are not directly involved (i.e., they operate within a closed system and materials are not combined with process fluids) in an activity listed in § 82.25(b)(2).

Process agent means a controlled substance used to form the environment for a chemical reaction or inhibit an unintended chemical reaction (e.g., use as a solvent, catalyst, or stabilizer) where the controlled substance is not consumed in the reaction, but is removed or recycled back into the process and where no more than trace quantities remain in the final product. A feedstock, in contrast, is consumed during the reaction. The term process agent includes, but is not limited to: carbon tetrachloride used in the elimination of nitrogen trichloride in chlor-alkali production, carbon tetrachloride used in the recovery of chlorine by tail gas absorption from chlor-alkali production, CFC-11 used in the production of synthetic fiber sheet, bromochloromethane used in the bromination of a styrenic polymer, and CFC-113 used in the production of high modulus polyethylene fiber.

Process condenser means a condenser whose primary purpose is to recover material as an integral part of a process. All condensers recovering condensate from a process vent at or above the boiling point or all condensers in line prior to a vacuum source are considered process condensers. Typically, a primary condenser or condensers in series are considered to be integral to the process if they are capable of and normally used for the purpose of recovering chemicals for fuel value (i.e., net positive heating value), use, reuse or for sale for fuel value, use, or reuse.

Process vent means a vent from a process vessel or vents from multiple process vessels within a process that are manifolded together into a common header, through which a controlled substance-containing gas stream is, or has the potential to be, released to the atmosphere (or the point of entry into a control device, if any). Examples of process vents include, but are not limited to, vents on condensers used for product recovery, bottoms receivers, surge control vessels, reactors, filters, centrifuges, and process tanks. Process vents do not include vents on storage tanks, wastewater emission sources, or pieces of equipment.

Production means the manufacture of a controlled substance from any raw material or feedstock chemical, but does not include:

(1) The manufacture of a controlled substance that is subsequently transformed;

(2) The reuse or recycling of a controlled substance;

(3) Amounts that are destroyed by approved destruction technologies; or

(4) Amounts that are spilled or vented unintentionally.

Production allowances means the privileges granted by this subpart to produce controlled substances; however, production allowances may be used to produce controlled substances only in conjunction with consumption allowances. A person's production allowances for class I substances are the total of the allowances obtained under §§ 82.5, 82.7 and 82.9, and as may be modified under § 82.12 (transfer of allowances). A person's production allowances for class II controlled substances are the total of the allowances obtained under § 82.17 and as may be modified under §§ 82.18 and 82.23.

Quarantine applications, with respect to class I, Group VI controlled substances, are treatments to prevent the introduction, establishment and/or spread of quarantine pests (including diseases), or to ensure their official control, where: (1) Official control is that performed by, or authorized by, a national (including state, tribal or local) plant, animal or environmental protection or health authority; (2) quarantine pests are pests of potential importance to the areas endangered thereby and not yet present there, or present but not widely distributed and being officially controlled. This definition excludes treatments of commodities not entering or leaving the United States or any State (or political subdivision thereof).

Source facility means the location at which a used controlled substance was recovered from a piece of equipment, including the name of the company responsible for, or owning the piece of equipment, a contact person at the location, the mailing address for that specific location, and a phone number and a fax number for the contact person at the location.

Space vehicle means a man-made device, either manned or unmanned, designed for operation beyond earth's atmosphere. This definition includes integral equipment such as models, mock-ups, prototypes, molds, jigs, tooling, hardware jackets, and test coupons. Also included is auxiliary equipment associated with tests, transport, and storage, which through contamination can compromise the space vehicle performance.

Third party applicator means an applicator of critical use methyl bromide who fumigates or treats commodities, structures, crops, or land on behalf of an approved critical user.

Transform means to use and entirely consume (except for trace quantities) a controlled substance in the manufacture of other chemicals for commercial purposes.

Transhipment means the continuous shipment of a controlled substance, from a foreign state of origin through the United States or its territories, to a second foreign state of final destination, as long as the shipment does not enter into United States jurisdiction. A transhipment, as it moves through the United States or its territories, cannot be re-packaged, sorted or otherwise changed in condition.

Typical batch means a batch process operated within a range of operating conditions that are documented in an operating scenario. Emissions from a typical batch are based on the operating conditions that result in representative emissions. The typical batch defines the uncontrolled emissions for each emission episode defined under the operating scenario.

Uncontrolled emissions of controlled substance means a gas stream containing a controlled substance which has exited the process (or process condenser or control condenser, where applicable), but which has not yet been introduced into a destruction unit to reduce the mass of controlled substance in the stream. If the emissions from the process are not routed to a destruction unit, uncontrolled emissions are those controlled substance emissions released to the atmosphere.

Unexpended Article 5 allowances means Article 5 allowances that have not been used. At any time in any control period a person's unexpended Article 5 allowances are the total of the level of Article 5 allowances the person has authorization under this subpart to hold at that time for that control period, minus the level of controlled substances that the person has produced in that control period until that time.

Unexpended consumption allowances means consumption allowances that have not been used. At any time in any control period a person's unexpended consumption allowances are the total of the level of consumption allowances the person has authorization under this subpart to hold at that time for that control period, minus the level of controlled substances that the person has produced or imported (not including transhipments and used controlled substances) in that control period until that time.

Unexpended critical use allowances (CUA) means critical use allowances against which methyl bromide has not yet been produced or imported. At any time in any control period a person's unexpended critical use allowances are the total of the level of critical use allowances the person holds at that time for that control period, minus the level of class I, Group VI controlled substances that the person has produced or has imported solely for approved critical uses in that control period.

Unexpended destruction and transformation credits means destruction and transformation credits that have not been used. At any time in any control period a person's unexpended destruction and transformation credits are the total of the level of destruction and transformation credits the person has authorization under this subpart to hold at that time for that control period, minus the level of controlled substances that the person has produced or imported (not including transhipments and used controlled substances) in that control period until that time.

Unexpended essential-use allowances means essential-use allowances that have not been used. At any time in any control period a person's unexpended essential-use allowances are the total of the level of essential-use allowances the person has authorization under this subpart to hold at that time for that control period, minus the level of controlled substances that the person has imported or had produced in that control period until that time.

Unexpended export production allowances means export production allowances that have not been used. A person's unexpended export production allowances are the total of the quantity of the export production allowances the person has authorization under § 82.18(h) to hold for that control period, minus the quantity of class II controlled substances that the person has produced at that time during the same control period.

Unexpended production allowances means production allowances that have not been used. At any time in any control period a person's unexpended production allowances are the total of the level of production allowances he has authorization under this subpart to hold at that time for that control period, minus the level of controlled substances that the person has produced in that control period until that time.

Unsafe-to-monitor means that monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of monitoring the piece of equipment. Examples of unsafe-to-monitor equipment include, but are not limited to, equipment under extreme pressure or heat.

Use of a class II controlled substance, for the purposes of § 82.15 of this subpart, includes but is not limited to, use in a manufacturing process, use in manufacturing a product, intermediate uses such as formulation or packaging for other subsequent uses, and use in maintaining, servicing, or repairing an appliance or other piece of equipment. Use of a class II controlled substance also includes use of that controlled substance when it is removed from a container used for the transportation or storage of the substance but does not include use of a manufactured product containing a controlled substance.

Used controlled substances means controlled substances that have been recovered from their intended use systems (may include controlled substances that have been, or may be subsequently, recycled or reclaimed).
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995]

Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting § 82.3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov.

### § 82.4 Prohibitions for class I controlled substances.

(a)(1) Prior to January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, no person may produce, at any time in any control period, (except that are transformed or destroyed domestically or by a person of another Party) in excess of the amount of unexpended production allowances or unexpended Article 5 allowances for that substance held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess production constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(2) Effective January 1, 2003, production of class I, Group VI controlled substances is not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (a)(1) of this section if it is solely for quarantine or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart.

(b)(1) Effective January 1, 1996, for any Class I, Group I, Group II, Group III, Group IV, Group V or Group VII controlled substances, and effective January 1, 2005 for any Class I, Group VI controlled substances, and effective August 18, 2003, for any Class I, Group VIII controlled substance, no person may produce, at any time in any control period (except that are transformed or destroyed domestically or by a person of another Party) in excess of the amount of conferred unexpended essential use allowances or exemptions, or in excess of the amount of unexpended critical use allowances, or in excess of the amount of unexpended Article 5 allowances as allocated under § 82.9 and 82.11, as may be modified under § 82.12 (transfer of allowances) for that substance held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess production constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(2) Effective January 1, 2005, production of class I, Group VI controlled substances is not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if it is solely for quarantine or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart, or it is solely for export to satisfy critical uses authorized by the Parties for that control period.

(c)(1) Prior to January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, no person may produce or (except for transhipments, heels or used controlled substances) import, at any time in any control period, (except for controlled substances that are transformed or destroyed) in excess of the amount of unexpended consumption allowances held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess production or importation (other than transhipments, heels or used controlled substances) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(2) Effective January 1, 2003, production and import of class I, Group VI controlled substances is not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (c)(1) of this section if it is solely for quarantine or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart.

(d) Effective January 1, 1996, for any class I, Group I, Group II, Group III, Group IV, Group V, or Group VII controlled substances, and effective January 1, 2005, for any class I, Group VI controlled substance, and effective August 18, 2003, for any class I, Group VIII controlled substance, no person may import (except for transhipments or heels), at any time in any control period, (except for controlled substances that are transformed or destroyed) in excess of the amount of unexpended essential use allowances or exemptions, or in excess of unexpended critical use allowances, for that substance held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess importation (other than transhipments or heels) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. It is a violation of this subpart to obtain unused class I controlled substances under the general laboratory exemption in excess of actual need and to recycle that material for sale into other markets.

(e) Effective January 1, 1996, no person may place an order by conferring essential-use allowances for the production of the class I controlled substance, at any time in any control period, in excess of the amount of unexpended essential-use allowances, held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Effective January 1, 1996, no person may import a class I controlled substance with essential-use allowances, at any time in any control period, in excess of the amount of unexpended essential-use allowances, held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. No person may import or place an order for the production of a class I controlled substance with essential-use allowances, at any time in any control period, other than for the class I controlled substance(s) for which they received essential-use allowances under paragraph (u) of this section. Every kilogram of excess production ordered in excess of the unexpended essential-use allowances conferred to the producer constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. Every kilogram of excess import in excess of the unexpended essential-use allowances held at that time constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) Effective January 1, 1996, the U.S. total production and importation of a class I controlled substance (except Group VI) as allocated under this section for essential-use allowances and exemptions, and as obtained under § 82.9 for destruction and transformation credits, may not, at any time, in any control period until January 1, 2000, exceed the percent limitation of baseline production in appendix H of this subpart, as set forth in the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. No person shall cause or contribute to the U.S. exceedance of the national limit for that control period.

(h) No person may sell in the U.S. any Class I controlled substance produced explicitly for export to an Article 5 country.

(i) Effective January 1, 1995, no person may import, at any time in any control period, a heel of any class I controlled substance that is greater than 10 percent of the volume of the container in excess of the amount of unexpended consumption allowances, or unexpended destruction and transformation credits held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess importation constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(j)(1) Effective January 1, 1995, no person may import, at any time in any control period, a used class I controlled substance, except for Group II used controlled substances shipped in aircraft halon bottles for hydrostatic testing, without having received a non-objection notice from the Administrator in accordance with § 82.13(g)(2) and (3). A person who receives a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of used controlled substances may not transfer or confer the right to import and may not import any more than the exact quantity, in kilograms, of the used controlled substance cited in the non-objection notice. Every kilogram of importation of used controlled substance in excess of the quantity cited in the non-objection notice issued by the Administrator in accordance with § 82.13(g)(2) and (3) constitutes a separate violation.

(2) No person may import for purposes of destruction, at any time in any control period, a class I controlled substance for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances, without having submitted a certification of intent to import for destruction to the Administrator and received a non-objection notice in accordance with § 82.13(g)(5). A person issued a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of class I controlled substances for destruction may not transfer or confer the right to import and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the class I controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. For imports intended to be destroyed in the United States, a person issued a non-objection notice must destroy the controlled substance within one year of the date stamped on the non-objection letter, may not transfer or confer the right to import, and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the class I controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. Every kilogram of import of class I controlled substance in excess of the quantity stated in the non-objection notice issued by the Administrator in accordance with § 82.13(g)(5) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(k)(1) Prior to January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, a person may not use production allowances to produce a quantity of a class I controlled substance unless that person holds under the authority of this subpart at the same time consumption allowances sufficient to cover that quantity of class I controlled substances nor may a person use consumption allowances to produce a quantity of class I controlled substances unless the person holds under authority of this subpart at the same time production allowances sufficient to cover that quantity of class I controlled substances. However, prior to January 1, 1996, for all class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, only consumption allowances are required to import, with the exception of transhipments, heels, and used controlled substances. Effective January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, except Group VI, only essential use allowances or exemptions are required to import class I controlled substances, with the exception of transhipments, heels, used controlled substances, and essential use CFCs.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (k)(1) of this section, effective January 1, 2003, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, consumption allowances are not required to import quantities solely for quarantine or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart.

(l) Every kilogram of a controlled substance, and every controlled product, imported or exported in contravention of this subpart constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. No person may:

(1) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group I or Group II, in appendix A to this subpart from or to any foreign state not Party to the 1987 Montreal Protocol unless that foreign state is complying with the 1987 Montreal Protocol (For ratification status, see: http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php);

(2) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group III, Group IV, or Group V, in appendix A to this subpart, from or to any foreign state not Party to the London Amendment, unless that foreign state is complying with the London Amendment (For ratification status, see: http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php); or

(3) Import a controlled product, as noted in appendix D, annex 1 to this subpart, from any foreign state not Party to the 1987 Montreal Protocol, unless that foreign state is complying with the 1987 Montreal Protocol (For ratification status, see: http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php).

(4) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group VII, in appendix A to this subpart, from or to any foreign state not Party to the Copenhagen Amendment, unless that foreign state is complying with the Copenhagen Amendment (For ratification status, see: http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php).

(5) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group VI, in appendix A to this subpart, from or to any foreign state not Party to the Copenhagen Amendment unless that foreign state is complying with the Copenhagen Amendment (For ratification status, see: http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php).

(6) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group VIII, in appendix A to this subpart, from or to any foreign state not Party to the Beijing Amendment, unless that foreign state is complying with the Beijing Amendment (For ratification status, see: http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php).

(m) Effective October 5, 1998, no person may export a controlled product to a Party listed in appendix J of this subpart in any control period after the control period in which EPA publishes a notice in the Federal Register listing that Party in appendix J of this subpart. EPA will publish a notice in the Federal Register that lists a Party in appendix J if the Party formally presents to the U.S. a government document through its embassy in the United States stating that it has established a ban on the import of controlled products and a ban on the manufacture of those same controlled products.

(n) No person may use class I controlled substances produced or imported under the essential use exemption for any purpose other than those set forth in this paragraph. Effective January 1, 1996, essential-use allowances are apportioned to a person under § 82.8(a) and (b) for the exempted production or importation of specified class I controlled substances solely for the purposes listed in paragraphs (n)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(1) Essential-uses for the production or importation of controlled substances as agreed to by the Parties to the Protocol and subject to the periodic revision of the Parties are:

(i) Metered dose inhalers (MDIs) for the treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease that were approved by the Food and Drug Administration before December 31, 2000.

(ii) Space Shuttle—solvents.

(iii) Essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined in appendix G of this subpart).

(2) Any person acquiring unused class I controlled substances produced or imported under the authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use exemption granted in § 82.8 to this subpart for use in anything other than an essential-use (i.e., for uses other than those specifically listed in paragraph (n)(1) of this section) is in violation of this subpart. Each kilogram of unused class I controlled substance produced or imported under the authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use exemption and used for a non-essential use is a separate violation of this subpart. Any person selling unused class I controlled substances produced or imported under authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use exemption for uses other than an essential-use is in violation of this subpart. Each kilogram of unused class I controlled substances produced or imported under authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use exemption and sold for a use other than an essential-use is a separate violation of this subpart. It is a violation of this subpart to obtain unused class I controlled substances under the exemption for laboratory and analytical uses in excess of actual need and to recycle that material for sale into other markets.

(o) [Reserved]

(p) Critical Use Exemption: With respect to class I, Group VI substances (methyl bromide):

(1) No person shall sell critical use methyl bromide without first receiving a certification from the purchaser that the quantity purchased will be sold or used solely for an approved critical use. Every kilogram of critical use methyl bromide sold without first obtaining such certification constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(2) For approved critical users, each action associated with each 200 kilograms of critical use methyl bromide for the following subparagraphs constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(i) No person shall take possession of quantities of critical use methyl bromide or acquire fumigation services using quantities of critical use methyl bromide without first completing the appropriate certification in accordance with the requirements in § 82.13.

(ii) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide may use such quantities for a use other than the specified critical use listed in column A and the specified location of use in column B of appendix L to this subpart.

(iii) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide produced or imported with expended critical use allowances for pre-plant uses, may use such quantities for other than the pre-plant uses as specified in column A and column B of appendix L to this subpart.

(iv) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide produced or imported with expended critical use allowances for post-harvest uses, may use such quantities for other than the post-harvest uses as specified in column A and column B of appendix L to this subpart.

(v) No person who uses critical use methyl bromide on a specific field or structure may concurrently or subsequently use non-critical use methyl bromide on the same field or structure for the same use (as defined in column A and column B of appendix L) in the same control period, excepting methyl bromide used under the quarantine and pre-shipment exemption.

(vi) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide during the control period shall use that methyl bromide on a field or structure for which that person has used non-critical use methyl bromide for the same use (as defined in columns A and B of appendix L) in the same control period, excepting methyl bromide used under the quarantine and pre-shipment exemption, unless, subsequent to that person's use of the non-critical use methyl bromide, that person becomes subject to a prohibition on the use of methyl bromide alternatives due to the reaching of a local township limit described in appendix L of this part, or becomes an approved critical user as a result of rulemaking.

(q) Emergency use exemption. [Reserved]

(r) No person may sell or use methyl bromide produced or imported under the quarantine and preshipment exemption for any purpose other than for quarantine applications or preshipment applications as defined in § 82.3. Each kilogram of methyl bromide produced or imported under the authority of the quarantine and preshipment exemption and sold or used for a use other than quarantine or preshipment is a separate violation of this subpart.

(s) No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, any class I substance that they know, or have reason to know, was imported in violation of this section, except for such actions needed to re-export the controlled substance. Every kilogram of a controlled substance imported in contravention of this paragraph (s) that is sold or distributed, or offered for sale or distribution, constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995]

Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting § 82.4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov.

### § 82.5 Apportionment of baseline production allowances for class I controlled substances.

Persons who produced controlled substances in Group I or Group II in 1986 are apportioned baseline production allowances as set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Persons who produced controlled substances in Group III, IV, or V in 1989 are apportioned baseline production allowances as set forth in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section. Persons who produced controlled substances in Group VI and VII in 1991 are apportioned baseline allowances as set forth in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section.

Controlled substance
Person
Allowances(kg)

(a) For Group I controlled substances:

CFC-11
Allied-Signal, Inc
23,082,358

E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
33,830,000

Elf Atochem, N.A
21,821,500

CFC-12
Laroche Chemicals
12,856,364

Allied-Signal, Inc
35,699,776

E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
64,849,000

Elf Atochem, N.A
31,089,807

CFC-113
Laroche Chemicals
15,330,909

Allied-Signal, Inc
21,788,896

CFC-114
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
58,553,000

Allied-Signal, Inc
1,488,569

CFC-115
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
4,194,000

E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
4,176,000

(b) For Group II controlled substances:

Halon-1211
Great Lakes Chemical Corp
826,487

ICI Americas, Inc
2,135,484

Halon-1301
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
3,220,000

Great Lakes Chemical Corp
1,766,850

Halon-2402

(c) For Group III controlled substances:

CFC-13
Allied-Signal, Inc
127,125

E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
187,831

Elf Atochem, N.A
3,992

Great Lakes Chemical Corp
56,381

Laroche Chemicals
29,025

CFC-111

CFC-112

CFC-211
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
11

CFC-212
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
11

CFC-213
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
11

CFC-214
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
11

CFC-215
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
511

Halocarbon Products Corp
1,270

CFC-216
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
170,574

CFC-217
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
511

(d) For Group IV controlled substances:

CCl4
Akzo Chemicals, Inc
7,873,615

Degussa Corporation
26,546

Dow Chemical Company, USA
18,987,747

E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
9,099

Hanlin Chemicals-WV, Inc
219,616

ICI Americas, Inc
853,714

Occidental Chemical Corp
1,059,358

Vulcan Chemicals
21,931,987

(e) For Group V controlled substances:

Methyl Chloroform
Dow Chemical Company, USA
168,030,117

E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
2

PPG Industries, Inc
57,450,719

Vulcan Chemicals
89,689,064

(f) For Group VI controlled substances:

Methyl Bromide
Great Lakes Chemical Corporation
19,945,788

Ethyl Corporation
8,233,894

(g) For Group VII controlled substances:

HBFC 22B1-1
Great Lakes Chemical Corporation
46,211

[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003]

### § 82.6 Apportionment of baseline consumption allowances for class I controlled substances.

Persons who produced, imported, or produced and imported controlled substances in Group I or Group II in 1986 are apportioned chemical-specific baseline consumption allowances as set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Persons who produced, imported, or produced and imported controlled substances in Group III, Group IV, or Group V in 1989 are apportioned chemical-specific baseline consumption allowances as set forth in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this section. Persons who produced, imported, or produced and imported controlled substances in Group VI or VII in 1991 are apportioned chemical specific baseline consumption allowances as set forth in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section.

Controlled substance
Person
Allowances (kg)

(a) For Group I controlled substances:

CFC-11
Allied-Signal, Inc
22,683,833

E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
32,054,283

Elf Atochem, N.A
21,740,194

Hoechst Celanese Corporation
185,396

ICI Americas, Inc
1,673,436

Kali-Chemie Corporation
82,500

Laroche Chemicals
12,695,726

National Refrigerants, Inc
693,707

Refricentro, Inc
160,697

Sumitomo Corporation of America
5,800

CFC-12
Allied-Signal, Inc
35,236,397

E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
61,098,726

Elf Atochem, N.A
32,403,869

Hoechst Celanese Corporation
138,865

ICI Americas, Inc
1,264,980

Kali-Chemie Corporation
355,440

Laroche Chemicals
15,281,553

National Refrigerants, Inc
2,375,384

Refricentro, Inc
242,526

CFC-113
Allied-Signal, Inc
18,241,928

E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
49,602,858

Elf Atochem, N.A
244,908

Holchem
265,199

ICI Americas, Inc
2,399,700

Refricentro, Inc
37,385

Sumitomo Corp. of America
280,163

CFC-114
Allied-Signal, Inc
1,429,582

E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
3,686,103

Elf Atochem, N.A
22,880

ICI Americas, Inc
32,930

CFC-115
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
2,764,109

Elf Atochem, N.A
633,007

Hoechst Celanese Corporation
8,893

ICI Americas, Inc
2,366,351

Laroche Chemicals
135,520

Refricentro, Inc
27,337

(b) For Group II controlled substances:

Halon-1211
Elf Atochem, N.A
411,292

Great Lakes Chemical Corp
772,775

ICI Americas, Inc
2,116,641

Kali-Chemie Corporation
330,000

Halon-1301
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
2,772,917

Elf Atochem, N.A
89,255

Great Lakes Chemical Corp
1,744,132

Kali-Chemie Corporation
54,380

Halon-2402
Ausimont
34,400

Great Lakes Chemical Corp
15,900

(c) For Group III controlled substances:

CFC-13
Allied-Signal, Inc
127,124

E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
158,508

Elf Atochem, N.A
3,992

Great Lakes Chemical Corp
56,239

ICI Americas, Inc
5,855

Laroche Chemicals
29,025

National Refrigerants, Inc
16,665

CFC-111

CFC-112
Sumitomo Corp of America
5,912

TG (USA) Corporation
9,253

CFC-211
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
11

CFC-212
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
11

CFC-213
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
11

CFC-214
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
11

CFC-215
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
511

Halocarbon Products Corp
1,270

CFC-216
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
170,574

CFC-217
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
511

(d) For Group IV controlled substances:

CCl4
Crescent Chemical Co
56

Degussa Corporation
12,466

Dow Chemical Company, USA
8,170,561

E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
26,537

Elf Atochem, N.A
41

Hanlin Chemicals-WV, Inc
103,133

Hoechst Celanese Corporation
3

ICC Chemical Corp
1,173,723

ICI Americas, Inc
855,466

Occidental Chemical Corp
497,478

Sumitomo Corporation of America
9

(e) For Group V controlled substances:

Methyl Chloroform
3V Chemical Corp
3,528

Actex, Inc
50,171

Atochem North America
74,355

Dow Chemical Company, USA
125,200,200

E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co
2

IBM
2,026

ICI Americas, Inc
14,179,850

Laidlaw
420,207

PPG Industries
45,254,115

Sumitomo
1,954

TG (USA) Corporation
7,073

Unitor Ships Service, Inc
14,746

Vulcan Chemicals
70,765,072

(f) For Group VI controlled substances:

Methyl Bromide
Great Lakes Chemical Corporation
15,514,746

Ethyl Corporation
6,379,906

AmeriBrom, Inc
3,524,393

TriCal, Inc
109,225

(g) For Group VII controlled substances:

HBFC 22B1-1
Great Lakes Chemical Corporation
40,110

[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003]

### § 82.7 Grant and phase reduction of baseline production and consumption allowances for class I controlled substances.

For each control period specified in the following table, each person is granted the specified percentage of the baseline production and consumption allowances apportioned to him under §§ 82.5 and 82.6 of this subpart.

Control period
Class I substances in groups I and III,(In percent)
Class I substances in group II,(In percent)
Class I substances in group IV(In percent)
Class I substances in group V(In percent)
Class I substances in group VI(In percent)
Class I substances in group VII(In percent)

1994
25
0
50
50
100
100

1995
25
0
15
30
100
100

1996
0
0
0
0
100
0

1997
0
0
0
0
100
0

1998
0
0
0
0
100
0

1999
0
0
0
0
75
0

2000
0
0
0
0
75
0

2001

50

2002

50

2003

30

2004

30

2005

0

[65 FR 70803, Nov. 28, 2000]

### § 82.8 Grant of essential use allowances and critical use allowances.

(a) Effective January 1, 1996, persons in the following list are allocated essential-use allowances or exemptions for quantities of a specific class I controlled substance for a specific essential-use (the Administrator reserves the right to revise the allocations based on future decisions of the Parties).

Table I—Essential Use Allowances for Calendar Year 2010

(i) Metered Dose Inhalers (for oral inhalation) for Treatment of Asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease

Company
Chemical
2010 Quantity(metric tons)

Armstrong
CFC-11 or CFC-12 or CFC-114.
30.0

(b) There is a global exemption for the production and import of class I controlled substances for essential laboratory and analytical uses, subject to the restrictions in appendix G of this subpart, and subject to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements at § 82.13(u) through (x). There is no amount specified for this exemption.

(c) Effective January 1, 2005, critical use allowances are apportioned as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for the exempted production and import of class I, Group VI controlled substances specifically for those approved critical uses listed in appendix L to this subpart for the applicable control period. Every kilogram of production and import in excess of the total number and type of unexpended critical use allowances held for a particular type of use constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(1) Allocated critical use allowances granted for specified control period.

Company
2016 Critical use allowances for pre-plant uses *(kilograms)
2016 Critical use allowances for post-harvest uses *(kilograms)

Great Lakes Chemical Corp. A Chemtura Company
84,222
1,179

Albemarle Corp.
34,634
485

ICL-IP America
19,140
268

TriCal, Inc.
596
8

Total
138,592
1,939

* For production or import of Class I, Group VI controlled substance exclusively for the pre-plant or post-harvest uses specified in appendix L to this subpart.

(2) [Reserved]
[69 FR 77003, Dec. 23, 2004]

Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting § 82.8, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov.

### § 82.9 Availability of production allowances in addition to baseline production allowances for class I controlled substances.

(a)—(b) [Reserved]

(c) A company may increase or decrease its production allowances, including its Article 5 allowances, by trading with another Party to the Protocol according to the provision under this paragraph (c). A company may increase or decrease its essential-use allowances for CFCs for use in essential MDIs according to the provisions under this paragraph (c). A nation listed in appendix C to this subpart (Parties to the Montreal Protocol) must agree either to transfer to the person for the current control period some amount of production or import that the nation is permitted under the Montreal Protocol or to receive from the person for the current control period some amount of production or import that the person is permitted under this subpart. If the controlled substance is produced under the authority of production allowances and is to be sold in the United States or to another Party (not the Party from whom the allowances are received), the U.S. company must expend its consumption allowances allocated under §§ 82.6 and 82.7 in order to produce with the additional production allowances.

(1) For trades from a Party, the person must obtain from the principal diplomatic representative in that nation's embassy in the United States a signed document stating that the appropriate authority within that nation has established or revised production limits or essential-use allowance limits for the nation to equal the lesser of the maximum production that the nation is allowed under the Protocol minus the amount transferred, the maximum production or essential-use allowances that are allowed under the nation's applicable domestic law minus the amount transferred, or the average of the nation's actual national production level for the three years prior to the transfer minus the production transferred. The person must submit to the Administrator a transfer request that includes a true copy of this document and that sets forth the following:

(i) The identity and address of the person;

(ii) The identity of the Party;

(iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the person and for the Party;

(iv) The chemical type, type of allowance being transferred, and the level of allowances being transferred;

(v) The control period(s) to which the transfer applies; and

(vi) For increased production intended for export to the Party from whom the allowances would be received, a signed statement of intent to export to the Party.

(vii) In the case of transferring essential-use allowances, the transferor must include a signed document from the transferee identifying the CFC MDI products that will be produced using the essential-use allowances.

(2) For trades to a Party, a person must submit a transfer request that sets forth the following:

(i) The identity and address of the person;

(ii) The identity of the Party;

(iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the person and for the Party;

(iv) The chemical type, type of allowance being transferred, and the level of allowances being transferred; and

(v) The control period(s) to which the transfer applies.

(3) After receiving a transfer request that meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the Administrator may, at his discretion, consider the following factors in deciding whether to approve such a transfer:

(i) Possible creation of economic hardship;

(ii) Possible effects on trade;

(iii) Potential environmental implications; and

(iv) The total amount of unexpended production or essential-use allowances held by a U.S. entity.

(v) In the case of transfer of essential-use allowances the Administrator may consider whether the CFCs will be used for production of essential MDIs.

(4) The Administrator will issue the person a notice either granting or deducting production allowances, Article 5 allowances, or essential-use allowances, and specifying the control period to which the transfer applies, provided that the request meets the requirement of paragraph (c)(1) of this sections for trades from Parties and paragraph (c)(2) of this section for trades to Parties, unless the Administrator has decided to disapprove the trade under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. For a trade from a Party, the Administrator will issue a notice that revises the allowances held by the person to equal the unexpended production, Article 5, or essential-use allowances held by the person under this subpart plus the level of allowable production transferred from the Party. For a trade to a Party, the Administrator will issue a notice that revises the production limit for the person to equal the lesser of:

(i) The unexpended production allowances, essential-use allowances, or Article 5 allowances held by the person under this subpart minus the amount transferred; or

(ii) The unexpended production allowances, essential-use allowances, or Article 5 allowances held by the person under this subpart minus the amount by which the United States average annual production of the controlled substance being traded for the three years prior to the transfer is less than the total production allowable for that substance under this subpart minus the amount transferred. The change in allowances will be effective on the date that the notice is issued.

(5) If after one person obtains approval for a trade of allowable production of a controlled substance to a Party, one or more other persons obtain approval for trades involving the same controlled substance and the same control period, the Administrator will issue notices revising the production limits for each of the other persons trading that controlled substance in that control period to equal the lesser of:

(i) The unexpended production allowances or Article 5 allowances held by the person under this subpart minus the amount transferred; or

(ii) The unexpended production allowances or Article 5 allowances held by the person under this subpart minus the amount by which the United States average annual production of the controlled substance being traded for the three years prior to the transfer is less than the total allowable production for that substance under this subpart multiplied by the amount transferred divided by the total amount transferred by all the other persons trading the same controlled substance in the same control period minus the amount transferred by that person.

(iii) The Administrator will also issue a notice revising the production limit for each person who previously obtained approval of a trade of that substance in that control period to equal the unexpended production allowances or unexpended Article 5 allowances held by the person under this subpart plus the amount by which the United States average annual production of the controlled substance being traded for the three years prior to the transfer is less than the total allowable production under this subpart multiplied by the amount transferred by that person divided by the amount transferred by all of the persons who have traded that controlled substance in that control period. The change in production allowances or Article 5 allowances will be effective on the date that the notice is issued.

(d) Effective January 1, 1996, there will be no trade in production or consumption allowances with other Parties to the Protocol for class I controlled substances, except for class I, Group VI, methyl bromide.

(e)—(f) [Reserved]

(g) International transfer of essential-use CFCs. (1) For trades of essential-use CFCs where the transferee or the transferor is a person in another nation (Party), the persons involved in the transfer must submit the information requested in § 82.12(d)(2) and (d)(3), along with a signed document from the principal diplomatic representative in the Party's embassy in the United States stating that the appropriate authority within that nation has approved the transfer of the essential-use CFCs.

(2) If the transfer claim is complete, and EPA does not object to the transfer, then EPA will issue letters to the transferor and the transferee indicating that the transfer may proceed. EPA reserves the right to disallow a transfer if the transfer request is incomplete, or if it has reason to believe that the transferee plans to produce MDIs that are not essential MDIs. If EPA objects to the transfer, EPA will issue letters to the transferor and transferee stating the basis for disallowing the transfer. The burden of proof is placed on the transferee to retain sufficient records to prove that the transferred essential-use CFCs are used only for production of essential MDIs. If EPA ultimately finds that the transferee did not use the essential-use CFCs for production of essential MDIs then the transferee is in violation of this subpart.
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 41643, Aug. 4, 1998; 63 FR 53290, Oct. 5, 1998; 65 FR 70804, Nov. 28, 2000; 67 FR 6360, Feb. 11, 2002; 67 FR 21134, Apr. 29, 2002; 70 FR 77047, Dec. 29, 2005; 85 FR 15292, Mar. 17, 2020]

### § 82.10 [Reserved]

### § 82.11 Exports of class I controlled substances to Article 5 Parties.

(a) If apportioned Article 5 allowances under § 82.9(a) or § 82.11(a)(2), a person may produce Class I controlled substances, in accordance with the prohibitions in § 82.4 and the reduction schedule in § 82.11(a)(3), to be exported (not including exports resulting in transformation or destruction, or exports of used controlled substances) to foreign states listed in appendix E to this subpart (Article 5 countries).

(1) A person must submit a notice to the Administrator of exports to Article 5 countries (except exports resulting in transformation or destruction, or used controlled substances) at the end of the quarter that includes the following:

(i) The identities and addresses of the exporter and the Article 5 country recipient of the exports;

(ii) The exporter's Employee Identification Number;

(iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the exporter and for the recipient;

(iv) The quantity and the type of controlled substances exported, its source and date purchased;

(v) The date on which, and the port from which, the controlled substances were exported from the United States or its territories;

(vi) The Article 5 country to which the controlled substances were exported;

(vii) A copy of the bill of lading and invoice indicating the net quantity shipped and documenting the sale of the controlled substances to the Article 5 purchaser;

(viii) The commodity code of the controlled substance exported; and

(ix) A copy of the invoice or sales agreement covering the sale of the controlled substances to the recipient Article 5 country that contains provisions forbidding the reexport of the controlled substance in bulk form and subjecting the recipient or any transferee of the recipient to liquidated damages equal to the resale price of the controlled substances if they are reexported in bulk form.

(2) Persons who reported exports of Class I, Group I controlled substances to Article 5 countries in 2000-2003 are apportioned baseline Article 5 allowances as set forth in § 82.11(a)(2)(i). Persons who reported exports of Class I, Group VI controlled substances to Article 5 countries in 1995-1998 are apportioned baseline Article 5 allowances as set forth in § 82.11(a)(2)(ii)).

(i) For Group I Controlled Substances

Controlled Substance
Person
Allowances (kg)

CFC-11
Honeywell
7,150

Sigma Aldrich
1

CFC-113
Fisher Scientific
5

Honeywell
313,686

Sigma Aldrich
48

CFC-114
Honeywell
24,798

Sigma Aldrich
1

(ii) For Group VI Controlled Substances

Controlled Substance
Person
Allowances (kg)

Methyl Bromide
Albemarle
1,152,714

Ameribrom
176,903

Great Lakes Chemical Corporation
3,825,846

(3) Phased Reduction Schedule for Article 5 Allowances allocated in § 82.11. For each control period specified in the following table, each person is granted the specified percentage of the baseline Article 5 allowances apportioned under § 82.11.

Control Period
Class I substances in group I(Inpercent)
Class I substances in group VI(Inpercent)

2006
50
80

2007
15
80

2008
15
80

2009
15
80

2010
0
80

2011
0
80

2012
0
80

2013
0
80

2014
0
80

2015
0
0

(2) [Reserved]

(b) [Reserved]
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 70 FR 77047, Dec. 29, 2005]

### § 82.12 Transfers of allowances for class I controlled substances.

(a) Inter-company transfers. (1) After January 1, 2002, any essential-use allowance holder (including those persons that hold essential-use allowances issued by a Party other than the United States) (&#x201C;transferor&#x201D;) may transfer essential-use allowances for CFCs to a metered dose inhaler company solely for the manufacture of essential MDIs. After January 1, 2005, any critical use allowance holder (&#x201C;transferor&#x201D;) may transfer critical use allowances to any other person (&#x201C;transferee&#x201D;).

(i) The transferor must submit to the Administrator a transfer claim setting forth the following:

(A) The identities and addresses of the transferor and the transferee;

(B) The name and telephone numbers of contact persons for the transferor and the transferee;

(C) The type of allowances being transferred, including the names of the controlled substances for which allowances are to be transferred;

(D) The group of controlled substances to which the allowances being transferred pertains;

(E) The amount of allowances being transferred;

(F) The control period(s) for which the allowances are being transferred;

(G) The amount of unexpended allowances of the type and for the control period being transferred that the transferor holds under authority of this subpart as of the date the claim is submitted to EPA; and

(H) The one percent offset applied to the unweighted amount traded will be deducted from the transferor's production or consumption allowance balance (except for trades from transformers and destroyers to producers or importers for the purpose of allowance reimbursement). In the case of transferring essential use allowances, the amount of one tenth of one percent of the amount traded will be deducted from the transferor's allowance balance. In the case of transferring critical use allowances, the amount of one tenth of one percent of the amount traded will be deducted from the transferor's critical use allowance balance.

(I) The transferor must include a signed document from the transferee identifying the CFC MDI products that will be produced using the essential-use allowances.

(ii) The Administrator will determine whether the records maintained by EPA, taking into account any previous transfers and any production, allowable imports and exports of controlled substances reported by the transferor, indicate that the transferor possesses, as of the date the transfer claim is processed, unexpended allowances sufficient to cover the transfer claim (i.e., the amount to be transferred plus, in the case of transferors of essential use allowances and critical use allowances, one tenth of one percent of the transferred amount). Within three working days of receiving a complete transfer claim, the Administrator will take action to notify the transferor and transferee as follows:

(A) If EPA's records show that the transferor has sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim, the Administrator will issue a notice indicating that EPA does not object to the transfer and will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the amount to be transferred plus, in the case of transfers of production or consumption allowances, one percent of that amount, or in the case of transfers of essential use allowances, one tenth of one percent of that amount. When EPA issues a no objection notice, the transferor and the transferee may proceed with the transfer. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and transferee will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.

(B) If EPA's records show that the transferor has insufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim, or that the transferor has failed to respond to one or more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a determination, the Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the transfer. Within 10 working days after receipt of notification, either party may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the Administrator. The Administrator may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that day.

(iii) In the event that the Administrator does not respond to a transfer claim within the three working days specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section the transferor and transferee may proceed with the transfer. EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the amount to be transferred plus, in the case of transfers of production or consumption allowances, one percent of that amount, and in the case of essential use allowances and critical use allowances, one tenth of one percent of that amount. However if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and transferee will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.

(2) [Reserved]

(b)—(c) [Reserved]

(d) Transfers of essential-use CFCs. (1) Effective January 1, 2002, any metered dose inhaler company (transferor) may transfer essential-use CFCs to another metered dose inhaler company (transferee) provided that the Administrator approves the transfer.

(2) The transferee must submit a transfer claim to the Administrator for approval before the transfer can take place. The transfer claim must set forth the following:

(i) The identities and addresses of the transferor and the transferee; and

(ii) The name and telephone numbers of contact persons for the transferor and the transferee; and

(iii) The amount of each controlled substance (CFC-11, CFC-12, or CFC-114) being transferred; and

(iv) The specific metered dose inhaler products (i.e. the MDI drug product or active moiety) that the transferee plans to produce with the transferred CFCs; and

(v) The country(ies) where the CFC metered dose inhalers produced with the transferred essential-use CFCs will be sold if other than in the United States; and

(vi) Certification that the essential-use CFCs will be used in the production of essential MDIs. If the MDIs are to be sold in the United States, the certification must state that MDIs produced with the transferred essential-use CFCs are listed as essential at 21 CFR 2.125, and were approved by the Food and Drug Administration before December 31, 2000. If the MDIs produced with the essential-use CFCs are to be sold outside the United States, the transferee must certify that the metered dose inhalers produced with the essential-use CFCs are considered essential by the importing country.

(3) The transferor must submit a letter stating that it concurs with the terms of the transfer as requested by the transferee.

(4) Once the transfer claim is complete, and if EPA does not object to the transfer, then EPA will issue letters to the transferor and the transferee within 10 business days indicating that the transfer may proceed. EPA reserves the right to disallow a transfer if the transfer request is incomplete, or if it has reason to believe that the transferee plans use the essential-use CFCs in anything other than essential MDIs. If EPA objects to the transfer, within EPA will issue letters to the transferor and transferee stating the basis for disallowing the transfer. The burden of proof is placed on the transferee to retain sufficient records to prove that the transferred essential-use CFCs are used only for production of essential MDIs. If EPA ultimately finds that the transferee did not use the essential-use CFCs for production of essential MDIs then the transferee is in violation of this subpart.
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 70804, Nov. 28, 2000; 66 FR 1471, Jan. 8, 2001; 67 FR 6361, Feb. 11, 2002; 69 FR 77004, Dec. 23, 2004; 79 FR 44311, July 31, 2014; 85 FR 15292, Mar. 17, 2020]

### § 82.13 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements for class I controlled substances.

(a) Effective dates. Unless otherwise specified, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements set forth in this section take effect on January 1, 1995. For class I, Group VIII controlled substances, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements set forth in this section take effect on August 18, 2003. For critical use methyl bromide, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements set forth in this section take effect January 1, 2005.

(b) Reports and records required by this section may be used for purposes of compliance determinations. These requirements are not intended as a limitation on the use of other evidence admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence. Failure to provide the reports, petitions and records required by this section, and to certify the accuracy of the information in the reports, petitions and records required by this section, will be considered a violation of this subpart. False statements made in reports, petitions and records will be considered violations of Section 113 of the Clean Air Act.

(c) Timing of reports. Unless otherwise specified, reports required by this section must be submitted to the Administrator within 45 days of the end of the applicable reporting period. Revisions of reports that are required by this section must be submitted to the Administrator within 180 days of the end of the applicable reporting period, unless otherwise specified. Starting May 18, 2020, reports that are available for submission through the Central Data Exchange or another format specified by EPA must be submitted electronically through that tool.

(d) Records and copies of reports required by this section must be retained for three years.

(e) In reports required by this section, quantities of controlled substances must be stated in terms of kilograms.

(f) Producers. Every person (&#x201C;producer&#x201D;) who produces class I controlled substances during a control period must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:

(1) Within 120 days of May 10, 1995, or within 120 days of the date that a producer first produces a class I controlled substance, whichever is later, and within 120 days of July 18, 2003 for class I, Group VIII controlled substances, every producer who has not already done so must submit to the Administrator a report describing:

(i) The method by which the producer in practice measures daily quantities of controlled substances produced;

(ii) Conversion factors by which the daily records as currently maintained can be converted into kilograms of controlled substances produced, including any constants or assumptions used in making those calculations (e.g., tank specifications, ambient temperature or pressure, density of the controlled substance);

(iii) Internal accounting procedures for determining plant-wide production;

(iv) The quantity of any fugitive losses accounted for in the production figures; and

(v) The estimated percent efficiency of the production process for the controlled substance. Within 60 days of any change in the measurement procedures or the information specified in the above report, the producer must submit a report specifying the revised data or procedures to the Administrator.

(2) Recordkeeping requirements Every producer of a class I controlled substance during a control period must maintain the following records:

(i) Dated records of the quantity of each controlled substance produced at each facility;

(ii) Dated records of the quantity of controlled substances produced for use in processes that result in their transformation or for use in processes that result in their destruction and quantity sold for use in processes that result in their transformation or for use in processes that result in their destruction;

(iii) Dated records of the quantity of controlled substances produced for an essential-use and quantity sold for use in an essential-use process;

(iv)—(v) [Reserved]

(vi) Copies of invoices or receipts documenting sale of controlled substance for use in processes resulting in their transformation or for use in processes resulting in destruction;

(vii) Dated records of the quantity of each controlled substance used at each facility as feedstocks or destroyed in the manufacture of a controlled substance or in the manufacture of any other substance, and any controlled substance introduced into the production process of the same controlled substance at each facility;

(viii) Dated records identifying the quantity of each chemical not a controlled substance produced within each facility also producing one or more controlled substances;

(ix) Dated records of the quantity of raw materials and feedstock chemicals used at each facility for the production of controlled substances;

(x) Dated records of the shipments of each controlled substance produced at each plant;

(xi) The quantity of controlled substances, the date received, and names and addresses of the source of used materials containing controlled substances which are recycled or reclaimed at each plant;

(xii) Records of the date, the controlled substance, and the estimated quantity of any spill or release of a controlled substance that equals or exceeds 100 pounds;

(xiii) Internal Revenue Service Certificates in the case of transformation, or the destruction verification in the case of destruction (as in § 82.13(k)), showing that the purchaser or recipient of a controlled substance, in the United States or in another country that is a Party, certifies the intent to either transform or destroy the controlled substance, or sell the controlled substance for transformation or destruction in cases when production and consumption allowances were not expended;

(xiv) Written verifications that essential-use allowances were conveyed to the producer for the production of specified quantities of a specific controlled substance that will only be used for the named essential-use and not resold or used in any other manufacturing process;

(xv) Written certifications that quantities of controlled substances, meeting the purity criteria in appendix G of this subpart, were purchased by distributors of laboratory supplies or by laboratory customers to be used only in essential laboratory and analytical uses as defined by appendix G, and not to be resold or used in manufacturing;

(xvi) [Reserved]

(xvii) For methyl bromide, dated records of the quantity of controlled substances produced for quarantine and preshipment applications and quantity sold for quarantine and preshipment applications;

(xviii) Written certifications that quantities of methyl bromide produced solely for quarantine and preshipment applications were purchased by distributors or applicators to be used only for quarantine applications and preshipment applications in accordance with the definitions in this subpart; and

(xix) Written verifications from a U.S. purchaser that methyl bromide produced solely for quarantine and preshipment applications, if exported, will be exported solely for quarantine applications and preshipment applications upon receipt of a certification in accordance with the definitions of this subpart and requirements in paragraph (h) of this section.

(xx) For methyl bromide, dated records such as invoices and order forms, and a log of the quantity of controlled substances produced for critical use, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, and the quantity sold for critical use, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use;

(xxi) Written certifications that quantities of methyl bromide produced for critical use were purchased by distributors, applicators, or approved critical users to be used or sold only for critical use in accordance with the definitions and prohibitions in this subpart. Certifications must be maintained by the producer for a minimum of three years; and

(xxii) For methyl bromide, dated records such as invoices and order forms, and a log of the quantity of controlled substances produced solely for export to satisfy critical uses authorized by the Parties for that control period, and the quantity sold solely for export to satisfy critical uses authorized by the Parties for that control period.

(3) Reporting requirements—producers. For each quarter, except as specified below, each producer of a class I controlled substance must provide the Administrator with a report containing the following information:

(i) The production by company in that quarter of each controlled substance, specifying the quantity of any controlled substance used in processing, resulting in its transformation by the producer;

(ii) The amount of production for use in processes resulting in destruction of controlled substances by the producer;

(iii) The levels of production (expended allowances and credits) for each controlled substance;

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) The amount of controlled substance sold or transferred during the quarter to a person other than the producer for use in processes resulting in its transformation or eventual destruction;

(vi) A list of the quantities and names of controlled substances exported, by the producer and or by other U.S. companies, to a Party to the Protocol that will be transformed or destroyed and therefore were not produced expending production or consumption allowances;

(vii) For transformation in the United States or by a person of another Party, one copy of an IRS certification of intent to transform the same controlled substance for a particular transformer and a list of additional quantities shipped to that same transformer for the quarter;

(viii) For destruction in the United States or by a person of another Party, one copy of a destruction verification (as under § 82.13(k)) for a particular destroyer, destroying the same controlled substance, and a list of additional quantities shipped to that same destroyer for the quarter;

(ix) [Reserved]

(x) A list of the essential-use allowance holders, distributors of laboratory supplies and laboratory customers from whom orders were placed and the quantity of specific essential-use controlled substances requested and produced;

(xi) The certifications from essential-use allowance holders stating that the controlled substances were purchased solely for specified essential uses and will not be resold or used in any other manufacturing process;

(xii) In the case of laboratory essential-uses, certifications from distributors of laboratory supplies that controlled substances were purchased for sale to laboratory customers who certify that the substances will only be used for essential laboratory and analytical uses as defined by appendix G of this subpart, and will not be resold or used in manufacturing; or, if sales are made directly to laboratories, certification from laboratories that the controlled substances will only be used for essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined at appendix G of this subpart) and will not be resold or used in manufacturing.

(xiii) The amount of methyl bromide sold or transferred during the quarter to a person other than the producer solely for quarantine and preshipment applications;

(xiv) A list of the quantities of methyl bromide produced by the producer and exported by the producer and/or by other U.S. companies, to a Party to the Protocol that will be used solely for quarantine and preshipment applications and therefore were not produced expending production or consumption allowances; and

(xv) For quarantine and preshipment applications of methyl bromide in the United States or by a person of another Party, one copy of a certification that the material will be used only for quarantine and preshipment applications in accordance with the definitions in this subpart from each recipient of the material and a list of additional quantities shipped to that same person for the quarter.

(xvi) For critical uses of methyl bromide, producers shall report annually the amount of critical use methyl bromide owned by the reporting entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use along with the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held; and

(xvii) A list of the quantities of methyl bromide produced by the producer and exported by the producer and/or by other U.S. companies in that control period, solely to satisfy the critical uses authorized by the Parties for that control period; and

(xviii) On an annual basis, the amount of methyl bromide produced or imported prior to the January 1, 2005, phaseout date owned by the reporting entity, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held.

(4) For any person who fails to maintain the records required by this paragraph, or to submit the report required by this paragraph, the Administrator may assume that the person has produced at full capacity during the period for which records were not kept, for purposes of determining whether the person has violated the prohibitions at § 82.4.

(g) Importers. Importers of class I controlled substances during a control period must comply with record-keeping and reporting requirements specified in this paragraph (g).

(1) Recordkeeping—importers. Any importer of a class I controlled substance (including used, recycled and reclaimed controlled substances) must maintain the following records:

(i) The quantity of each controlled substance imported, either alone or in mixtures, including the percentage of each mixture which consists of a controlled substance;

(ii) The quantity of those controlled substances imported that are used (including recycled or reclaimed) and, where applicable, the information provided with the petition as under paragraph (g)(2) of this section;

(iii) The quantity of controlled substances other than transhipments or used, recycled or reclaimed substances imported for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction and quantity sold for use in processes that result in their destruction or transformation;

(iv) The date on which the controlled substances were imported;

(v) The port of entry through which the controlled substances passed;

(vi) The country from which the imported controlled substances were imported;

(vii) The commodity code for the controlled substances shipped, which must be one of those listed in Appendix K to this subpart;

(viii) The importer number for the shipment;

(ix) A copy of the bill of lading for the import;

(x) The invoice for the import;

(xi) The quantity of imports of used, recycled, or reclaimed class I controlled substances;

(xii) The U.S. Customs entry number;

(xiii) Dated records documenting the sale or transfer of controlled substances for use in processes resulting in transformation or destruction;

(xiv) Copies of IRS certifications that the controlled substance will be transformed or destruction verifications that it will be destroyed (as in § 82.13(k));

(xv) Dated records of the quantity of controlled substances imported for an essential use; and

(xvi) Copies of certifications that imported controlled substances are being purchased for essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined at appendix G of this subpart) or being purchased for eventual sale to laboratories that certify that controlled substances are for essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined at appendix G of this subpart).

(xvii) Dated records of the quantity of methyl bromide imported for quarantine and preshipment applications and quantity sold for quarantine and preshipment applications;

(xviii) Written certifications that quantities of methyl bromide imported solely for quarantine and preshipment applications were purchased by distributors or applicators to be used only for quarantine and preshipment applications in accordance with the definitions in this subpart; and

(xix) Written verifications from a U.S. purchaser that methyl bromide imported solely for quarantine and preshipment applications, if exported, will be exported solely for quarantine and preshipment applications upon receipt of a certification in accordance with the definitions of this subpart and requirements in paragraph (h) of this section.

(xx) For methyl bromide, dated records such as invoices and order forms, of the quantity of controlled substances imported for critical use, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, and the quantity sold for critical use, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use; and

(xxi) Written certifications that quantities of methyl bromide imported for critical use were purchased by distributors, applicators, or approved critical users to be used or sold only for critical use in accordance with the definitions and prohibitions in this subpart. Certifications must be maintained by an importer for a minimum of three years.

(2) Petitioning—importers of used, recycled, or reclaimed controlled substances. For each individual shipment over 5 pounds of a used controlled substance as defined in § 82.3, except for Group II used controlled substances shipped in aircraft halon bottles for hydrostatic testing and imports intended for destruction, an importer must submit directly to the Administrator, at least 40 working days before the shipment is to leave the foreign port of export, the following information in a petition:

(i) Name, commodity code, and quantity in kilograms of the used controlled substance to be imported;

(ii) Name and address of the importer, the importer ID number, and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;

(iii) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of all previous source facilities from which the used controlled substance was recovered or the halon bank storing the controlled substance;

(iv) A detailed description of the previous use of the controlled substance at each source facility and a best estimate of when the specific controlled substance was put into the equipment at each source facility, and, when possible, documents indicating the date the material was put into the equipment;

(v) A list of the name, make and model number of the equipment from which the material was recovered at each source facility;

(vi) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the exporter and of all persons to whom the material was transferred or sold after it was recovered from the source facility;

(vii) The U.S. port of entry for the import, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the chemical. If at the time of submitting a petition the importer does not know the U.S. port of entry, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the chemical, and the importer receives a non-objection notice for the individual shipment in the petition, the importer is required to notify the Administrator of this information prior to the actual U.S. Customs entry of the individual shipment;

(viii) A description of the intended use of the used controlled substance, and, when possible, the name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the ultimate purchaser in the United States;

(ix) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the U.S. reclamation facility, where applicable;

(x) If someone at the source facility recovered the controlled substance from the equipment, the name, email address, and phone number of that person;

(xi) If the imported controlled substance was reclaimed in a foreign Party, the name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of any or all foreign reclamation facility(ies) responsible for reclaiming the cited shipment;

(xii) The export license, application for an export license, or official communication acknowledging the export from the appropriate government agency in the country of export and, if recovered in another country, the export license or official communication from the appropriate government agency in that country, and quantity authorized for export in kilograms on the export license, and an English translation of these documents;

(xiii) If the imported used controlled substance is intended to be sold as a refrigerant in the United States, the name, address, and email address of the EPA-certified U.S. reclaimer who will bring the material to the standard required under subpart F of this part if not already reclaimed to those specifications; and

(xiv) [Reserved]

(xv) If the used controlled substance is stored in a halon bank, in lieu of the information required in paragraphs (g)(2)(iv) through (vi) of this section, the petitioner may provide an official letter from the appropriate government agency in the country where the material is stored indicating that the halon is used and that the halon bank is authorized to collect used halon. If source information in paragraphs (g)(2)(iv) through (vi) is available, it should also be provided in addition to the letter.

(3) Review of petition to import a used substance. Starting on the first working day following receipt by the Administrator of a petition to import a used class I controlled substance, the Administrator will initiate a review of the information submitted under paragraph (g)(2) of this section and take action within 40 working days to issue either an objection-notice or a non-objection notice for the individual shipment to the person who submitted the petition to import the used class I controlled substance.

(i) For the following reasons, the Administrator may issue an objection notice to a petition:

(A) If the Administrator determines that the information is insufficient, that is, if the petition lacks or appears to lack any of the information required under paragraph (g)(2) of this section or other information that may be requested during the review of the petition necessary to verify that the controlled substance is used;

(B) If the Administrator determines that any portion of the petition contains false or misleading information, or the Administrator has information from other U.S. or foreign government agencies indicating that the petition contains false or misleading information;

(C) If the importer wishes to import a used class I controlled substance from a country which is, for that particular controlled substance, out of compliance regarding its phaseout obligations under the Protocol or the transaction in the petition is contrary to other provisions in the Vienna Convention or the Montreal Protocol;

(D) If the appropriate government agency in the exporting country has not agreed to issue an export license for the cited individual shipment of used controlled substance;

(E) If allowing the import of the used class I controlled substance would run counter to government restrictions from either the country of recovery or export regarding controlled ozone-depleting substances;

(F) If reclamation capacity is installed or is being installed for that specific controlled substance in the country of recovery or country of export and the capacity is funded in full or in part through the Multilateral Fund.

(ii) Within ten (10) working days after receipt of the objection notice, the importer may re-petition the Administrator, only if the Administrator indicated &#x201C;insufficient information&#x201D; as the basis for the objection notice. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after the date on the objection notice, the objection shall become final. Only one appeal of re-petition will be accepted for any petition received by EPA.

(iii) Any information contained in the re-petition which is inconsistent with the original petition must be identified and a description of the reason for the inconsistency must accompany the re-petition.

(iv) In cases where the Administrator does not object to the petition based on the criteria listed in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section, the Administrator will issue a non-objection notice.

(v) To pass the approved used class I controlled substances through U.S. Customs, the non-objection notice issued by EPA must accompany the shipment through U.S. Customs.

(vi) If for some reason, following EPA's issuance of a non-objection notice, new information is brought to EPA's attention which shows that the non-objection notice was issued based on false information, then EPA has the right to:

(A) Revoke the non-objection notice;

(B) Pursue all means to ensure that the controlled substance is not imported into the United States; and

(C) Take appropriate enforcement actions.

(vii) A person receiving the non-objection notice is permitted to import the individual shipment only within one year of the date stamped on the non-objection notice.

(viii) A person receiving a non-objection notice from the Administrator for a petition to import used class I controlled substances must maintain the following records:

(A) a copy of the petition;

(B) the EPA non-objection notice;

(C) the bill of lading for the import; and

(D) The U.S. Customs entry number.

(4) Reporting requirements—importers. For each quarter, except as specified below, every importer of a class I controlled substance (including importers of used, recycled or reclaimed controlled substances) must submit to the Administrator a report containing the following information:

(i) Summaries of the records required in paragraphs (g)(1) (i) through (xvi) of this section for the previous quarter;

(ii) The total quantity imported in kilograms of each controlled substance for that quarter;

(iii) The quantity of those controlled substances imported that are used controlled substances.

(iv) The levels of import (expended consumption allowances before January 1, 1996) of controlled substances for that quarter and totaled by chemical for the control-period-to-date;

(vii) [Reserved]

(viii) The amount of controlled substances imported for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction;

(ix) The amount of controlled substances sold or transferred during the quarter to each person for use in processes resulting in their transformation or eventual destruction;

(x) The amount of controlled substances sold or transferred during the quarter to each person for an essential use;

(xi) [Reserved]

(xii) Internal Revenue Service Certificates showing that the purchaser or recipient of imported controlled substances intends to transform those substances or destruction verifications (as in § 82.13(k)) showing that purchaser or recipient intends to destroy the controlled substances; and

(xiii) The certifications from essential-use allowance holders stating that the controlled substances were purchased solely for specified essential-uses and will not be resold or used in manufacturing; and the certifications from distributors of laboratory supplies that the controlled substances were purchased solely for eventual sale to laboratories that certify the controlled substances are for essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined at appendix G of this subpart), or if sales are made directly to laboratories, certifications from laboratories that the controlled substances will only be used for essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined at appendix G of this subpart) and will not be resold or used in manufacturing.

(xiv) In the case of laboratory essential uses, a certification from distributors of laboratory supplies that controlled substances were purchased for sale to laboratory customers who certify that the substances will only be used for laboratory applications and will not be resold or used in manufacturing; and

(xv) The amount of methyl bromide sold or transferred during the quarter to a person other than the importer solely for quarantine and preshipment applications;

(xvi) A list of the quantities of methyl bromide exported by the importer and or by other U.S. companies, to a Party to the Protocol that will be used solely for quarantine and preshipment applications and therefore were not imported expending consumption allowances; and

(xvii) For quarantine and preshipment applications of methyl bromide in the United States or by a person of another Party, one copy of a certification that the material will be used only for quarantine and preshipment applications in accordance with the definitions in this subpart from each recipient of the material and a list of additional quantities shipped to that same person for the quarter.

(xviii) For critical uses of methyl bromide, importers shall report annually the amount of critical use methyl bromide owned by the reporting entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use along with the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held.

(xix) Importers shall report annually the amount of methyl bromide produced or imported prior to the January 1, 2005, phaseout date owned by the reporting entity, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held.

(5) Certification of intent to import for destruction. For each individual shipment of a class I controlled substance imported with the intent to destroy that substance, an importer must submit electronically to the Administrator, at least 30 working days before the shipment is to leave the foreign port of export, the following information:

(i) Name, commodity code, and quantity in kilograms of each controlled substance to be imported;

(ii) Name and address of the importer, the importer ID number, and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;

(iii) Name and address of any intermediary who will aggregate controlled substances imported for destruction, and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;

(iv) The U.S. port of entry for the import, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the material. If at the time of submitting the certification of intent to import for destruction the importer does not know the U.S. port of entry, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the material, and the importer receives a non-objection notice for the individual shipment in the petition, the importer is required to notify the Administrator of this information prior to the entry of the individual shipment into the United States;

(v) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the responsible party at the destruction facility;

(vi) The export license, application for an export license, or official communication acknowledging the export from the appropriate government agency in the country of export and, if recovered in another country, the export license or official communication from the appropriate government agency in that country, and quantity authorized for export in kilograms on the export license, and an English translation of these documents; and

(vii) A certification of accuracy of the information submitted in the certification.

(6) Destruction verification. For each individual shipment of a class I controlled substance imported with the intent to destroy that substance, an importer must submit to the Administrator a copy of the destruction verification within 30 days after destruction of the controlled substance(s).

(7) Review of certification of intent to import for destruction. (i) Starting on the first working day following receipt by the Administrator of a certification of intent to import a class I controlled substance for destruction, the Administrator will initiate a review of the information submitted under paragraph (g)(5) of this section and take action within 30 working days to issue either an objection notice or a non-objection notice for the individual shipment to the person who submitted the certification of intent to import the class I controlled substance for destruction.

(ii) The Administrator may issue an objection notice if the petition lacks or appears to lack any of the information required under paragraph (g)(5) of this section or for the reasons listed in paragraphs (g)(3)(i)(B) through (F) of this section.

(iii) In cases where the Administrator does not object to the petition, the Administrator will issue a non-objection notice.

(iv) To pass the approved class I controlled substances through U.S. Customs, the non-objection notice issued by EPA must accompany the shipment through U.S. Customs.

(v) If for some reason, following EPA's issuance of a non-objection notice, new information is brought to EPA's attention which shows that the non-objection notice was issued based on false information, then EPA has the right to:

(A) Revoke the non-objection notice;

(B) Pursue all means to ensure that the class I controlled substance is not imported into the United States; and

(C) Take appropriate enforcement actions.

(8) Timing of import. A person receiving the non-objection notice is permitted to import the individual shipment only within one year of the date stamped on the non-objection notice.

(9) Additional recordkeeping requirements—importers of used, recycled, or reclaimed controlled substances. A person receiving a non-objection notice from the Administrator for a certification of intent to import class I controlled substances for destruction must maintain the following records:

(i) A copy of the certificate of intent to import for destruction;

(ii) The EPA non-objection notice;

(iii) A copy of the export license, export license application, or official communication from the appropriate government agency in the country of export;

(iv) U.S. Customs entry documents for the import that must include one of the commodity codes from appendix K to this subpart;

(v) The date, amount, and type of controlled substance sent for destruction, per shipment;

(vi) An invoice from the destruction facility verifying the shipment was received;

(vii) A copy of the destruction verification from the destruction facility; and

(viii) An English translation of the document in paragraph (g)(9)(iii) of this section.

(10) Recordkeeping requirements-aggregators. A person identified in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section as aggregating a controlled substance prior to destruction must:

(i) Maintain transactional records that include the name and address of the entity from whom they received the controlled substance imported for destruction;

(ii) Maintain transactional records that include the name and address of the entity to whom they sent the controlled substance imported for destruction;

(iii) Maintain records that include the date and quantity of the imported controlled substance received for destruction;

(iv) Maintain records that include the date and quantity of the imported controlled substance sent for destruction; and

(v) If the person is the final aggregator of such a controlled substance before the material is destroyed, maintain a copy of the destruction verification.

(h) Reporting requirements—exporters. (1) For any exports of class I controlled substances (except methyl bromide) not reported under paragraph (f)(3) of this section (reporting for producers of controlled substances), the exporter who exported a class I controlled substance (except methyl bromide) must submit to the Administrator the following information within 45 days after the end of the control period in which the unreported exports left the United States:

(i) The names and addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the exports;

(ii) The exporter's Employer Identification Number;

(iii) The type and quantity of each controlled substance exported including the quantity of controlled substance that is used, recycled, or reclaimed;

(iv) The date on which, and the port from which, the controlled substances were exported from the United States or its territories;

(v) The country to which the controlled substances were exported;

(vi) The amount exported to each Article 5 country;

(vii) The commodity code of the controlled substance shipped; and

(viii) The invoice or sales agreement containing language similar to the Internal Revenue Service Certificate that the purchaser or recipient of imported controlled substances intends to transform those substances, or destruction verifications (as in paragraph (k) of this section) showing that the purchaser or recipient intends to destroy the controlled substances.

(2) For any exports of methyl bromide not reported under paragraph (f)(3) of this section (reporting for producers of controlled substances), the exporter who exported methyl bromide must submit to the Administrator the following information within 45 days after the end of each quarter in which the unreported exports left the United States:

(i) The names and addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the exports;

(ii) The exporter's Employer Identification Number;

(iii) The quantity of methyl bromide exported by use (transformation, destruction, critical use, or quarantine and preshipment);

(iv) The date on which, and the port from which, the methyl bromide was exported from the United States or its territories;

(v) The country to which the methyl bromide was exported;

(vi) The amount exported to each Article 5 country;

(vii) The commodity code of the controlled substance shipped; and

(viii) The invoice or sales agreement containing language similar to the Internal Revenue Service Certificate that the purchaser or recipient of imported methyl bromide intends to transform those substances, the destruction verifications (as in paragraph (k) of this section) showing that the purchaser or recipient intends to destroy the controlled substances, or the certification that the purchaser or recipient and the eventual applicator will only use the material for quarantine and preshipment applications in accordance with the definitions in this subpart.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) Persons who destroy class I controlled substances shall, following promulgation of this rule, provide EPA with a one-time report stating the destruction unit's destruction efficiency and the methods used to record the volume destroyed and those used to determine destruction efficiency and the name of other relevant federal or state regulations that may apply to the destruction process. Any changes to the unit's destruction efficiency or methods used to record volume destroyed and to determine destruction efficiency must be reflected in a revision to this report to be submitted to EPA within 60 days of the change.

(k) Persons who purchase or receive and subsequently destroy controlled class I substances that were originally produced without expending allowances shall provide the producer or importer from whom they purchased or received the controlled substances with a verification that controlled substances will be used in processes that result in their destruction.

(1) The destruction verification shall include the following:

(i) Identity and address of the person intending to destroy controlled substances;

(ii) Indication of whether those controlled substances will be completely destroyed, as defined in § 82.3 of this rule, or less than completely destroyed, in which case the destruction efficiency at which such substances will be destroyed must be included;

(iii) Period of time over which the person intends to destroy controlled substances; and

(iv) Signature of the verifying person.

(2) If, at any time, any aspects of this verification change, the person must submit a revised verification reflecting such changes to the producer from whom that person purchases controlled substances intended for destruction.

(l) Persons who purchase class I controlled substances and who subsequently transform such controlled substances shall provide the producer or importer with the IRS certification that the controlled substances are to be used in processes resulting in their transformation.

(m) Any person who transforms or destroys class I controlled substances who has submitted an IRS certificate of intent to transform or a destruction verification (as under paragraph (k) of this section) to the producer or importer of the controlled substance, must report the names and quantities of class I controlled substances transformed and destroyed for each control period within 45 days of the end of such control period.

(n) Persons who import or export used controlled substances (including recycled or reclaimed) must label their bill of lading or invoice indicating that the controlled substance is used, recycled or reclaimed.

(o) Persons who import heels of controlled substances must label their bill of lading or invoice indicating that the controlled substance in the container is a heel.

(p) Every person who brings back a container with a heel to the United States, as defined in § 82.3, must report quarterly the amount brought into the United States certifying that the residual amount in each shipment is less than 10 percent of the volume of the container and will either:

(1) Remain in the container and be included in a future shipment;

(2) Be recovered and transformed;

(3) Be recovered and destroyed; or

(4) Be recovered for a non-emissive use.

(q) Every person who brings a container with a heel into the United States must report on the final disposition of each shipment within 45 days of the end of the control period.

(r) Every person who transships a controlled substance must maintain records that indicate that the controlled substance shipment originated in a foreign country destined for another foreign country, and does not enter interstate commerce with the United States.

(s) Any person allocated essential-use allowances who submits an order to a producer or importer for a controlled substance must report the quarterly quantity received from each producer or importer.

(t) Any distributor of laboratory supplies receiving controlled substances under the global laboratory essential-use exemption for sale to laboratory customers must report quarterly the quantity received of each controlled substance from each producer or importer.

(u) Holders of Essential-Use Allowances—Reporting.

(1) Within 30 days of the end of every quarter, any person allocated essential-use allowances must submit to the Administrator a report containing the quantity of each controlled substance, in kilograms, purchased and received from each producer and each importer during that quarter as well as from which country the controlled substance was imported.

(2) Any person allocated essential-use allowances must submit to the Administrator a report containing the following information within 30 days of the end of the control period, and, if possible, within 20 days of the end of the control period:

(i) The gross quantity of each controlled substance, in kilograms, that was used for the essential use during the control period; and

(ii) The quantity of each controlled substance, in kilograms, contained in exported products during the control period; and

(iii) The quantity of each controlled substance, in kilograms, that was destroyed or recycled during the control period; and

(iv) The quantity of each controlled substance, in kilograms, held in inventory as of the last day of the control period, that was acquired with essential use allowances in all control periods (i.e. quantity on hand at the end of the year); and

(v) The quantity of each controlled substance, in kilograms, in a stockpile that is owned by the company or is being held on behalf of the company under contract, and was produced or imported through the use of production allowances and consumption allowances prior to the phaseout (i.e. class I ODSs produced before their phaseout dates); and

(vi) For essential use allowances for metered-dose inhalers only, the allowance holder must report the total number of marketable units of each specific metered-dose inhaler product manufactured in the control period.

(v) Laboratory use exemption distributors. Any distributor of laboratory supplies who purchased controlled substances under the global essential laboratory and analytical use exemption must submit quarterly (except distributors following procedures in paragraph (x) of this section) the quantity of each controlled substance purchased by each laboratory customer or distributor whose certification was previously provided to the distributor pursuant to paragraph (w) of this section, the contact information for the source company from which material was purchased, and the laboratories to whom the material is sold.

(w) Laboratory use exemption customers. A laboratory customer purchasing a controlled substance under the global essential laboratory and analytical use exemption must provide the producer, importer or distributor with a one-time-per-year certification for each controlled substance that the substance will only be used for essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined at appendix G of this subpart) and not be resold or used in manufacturing.

(1) The identity and address of the laboratory customer;

(2) The name, email address, and phone number of a contact person for the laboratory customer;

(3) The name and quantity of each controlled substance purchased, and the estimated percent of the controlled substance that will be used for each listed type of laboratory application.

(x) Any distributor of laboratory supplies who purchased class I controlled substances under the global essential laboratory and analytical use exemption, and who only sells the class I controlled substances as reference standards for calibrating laboratory analytical equipment, may write a letter to the Administrator requesting permission to submit the reports required under paragraph (v) of this section annually rather than quarterly. The Administrator will review the request and issue a notification of permission to file annual reports if, in the Administrator's judgment, the distributor meets the requirements of this paragraph. Upon receipt of a notification of extension from the Administrator, the distributor must submit annually the quantity of each controlled substance purchased by each laboratory customer whose certification was previously provided to the distributor pursuant to paragraph (w) of this section.

(y) Quarantine and preshipment methyl bromide distributors. Every distributor of methyl bromide who purchases or receives a quantity produced or imported for quarantine or preshipment applications under the exemptions in this subpart must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:

(1) Every distributor of quarantine and preshipment methyl bromide must certify to the producer, importer, or distributor from whom they purchased or received the controlled substance that quantities purchased or received will be sold only for quarantine applications or preshipment applications in accordance with the definitions in this subpart.

(2) Every distributor of quarantine and preshipment methyl bromide must receive from an applicator, exporter, or distributor to whom they sell or deliver the controlled substance a certification, prior to delivery, stating that the quantity will be used or sold solely for quarantine applications or preshipment applications in accordance with definitions in this subpart.

(3) Every distributor of quarantine and preshipment methyl bromide must maintain the certifications as records for 3 years.

(4) Every distributor of quarantine and preshipment methyl bromide must report to the Administrator within 45 days after the end of each quarter, the total quantity delivered to applicators or end users for quarantine applications and preshipment applications in accordance with definitions in this subpart.

(z) Quarantine and preshipment methyl bromide applicators. Every applicator of methyl bromide who purchases or receives a quantity produced or imported solely for quarantine or preshipment applications under the exemptions in this subpart must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:

(1) Recordkeeping. Every applicator of methyl bromide produced or imported for quarantine and preshipment applications under the exemptions of this subpart must maintain, for every application, a document from the commodity owner, shipper, or their agent requesting the use of methyl bromide citing the requirement that justifies its use in accordance with definitions in this subpart. These documents shall be retained for 3 years.

(2) Reporting. Every applicator who purchases or receives methyl bromide that was produced or imported for quarantine and preshipment applications under the exemptions in this subpart shall provide the distributor of the methyl bromide, prior to shipment, with a certification that the methyl bromide will be used only for quarantine applications or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart.

(aa) Quarantine and preshipment methyl bromide end user certification. Every commodity owner, shipper or their agent requesting an applicator to use methyl bromide that was produced or imported solely for quarantine and preshipment applications under the exemptions of this subpart must maintain a record for 3 years, for each request, certifying knowledge of the requirements associated with the exemption for quarantine and preshipment applications in this subpart and citing the requirement that justifies its use. The record must include the following statement: &#x201C;I certify knowledge of the requirements associated with the exempted quarantine and preshipment applications published in 40 CFR part 82, including the requirement that this letter cite the treatments or official controls for quarantine applications or the official requirements for preshipment requirements.&#x201D;

(bb) Every distributor of methyl bromide (class I, Group VI controlled substances) who purchases or receives a quantity of critical use methyl bromide must comply with recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in this paragraph (bb).

(1) Recordkeeping—Every distributor of critical use methyl bromide must certify to the producer or importer or other entity from which they are acquiring quantities of critical use methyl bromide that such quantities received will be sold or used only for approved critical use(s) in accordance with the definitions and prohibitions in this subpart.

(i) Every distributor of a quantity of critical use methyl bromide must receive from an applicator, or any other entity to whom they sell critical use methyl bromide, a certification of the quantity of critical use methyl bromide ordered, prior to delivery of the quantity, stating that the quantity will be sold or used only for approved critical uses in accordance with definitions and prohibitions in this subpart.

(ii) Every distributor of methyl bromide who receives a certification from an applicator or any other entity to which they sell critical use methyl bromide must maintain the certifications as records for 3 years.

(iii) Every distributor of a quantity of critical use methyl bromide must maintain invoice and order records related to the sale of such material for 3 years.

(2) Reporting—Every distributor of critical use methyl bromide must report to the Administrator annually, the following items:

(i) For critical uses of class I, Group VI controlled substances, an annual list of the amount of critical use methyl bromide bought;

(ii) For critical uses of class I, Group VI controlled substances, an annual list of the amount of critical use methyl bromide sold for each specified critical use in appendix L of this subpart;

(iii) For critical uses of class I, Group VI controlled substances, report the amount of critical use methyl bromide owned by the reporting entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, along with the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held;

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) The amount of methyl bromide produced or imported prior to the January 1, 2005, phaseout date owned by the reporting entity, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held.

(cc) Every third party applicator of methyl bromide (class I, Group VI controlled substances) that purchases or receives critical use methyl bromide must comply with recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in this paragraph (cc).

(1) Recordkeeping—Every third party applicator of critical use methyl bromide must certify to the producer or importer or other entity from which they are acquiring quantities of critical use methyl bromide that such quantities received will be sold or used only for approved critical use(s) in accordance with the definitions and prohibitions in this subpart.

(i) Every third party applicator of a quantity of critical use methyl bromide must receive from any entity to whom they sell critical use methyl bromide, a certification of the quantity of critical use methyl bromide ordered, prior to delivery of the quantity, stating that the quantity will be sold or used only for approved critical uses in accordance with definitions and prohibitions in this subpart.

(ii) Every third party applicator of methyl bromide who receives a certification from an entity to which they sell critical use methyl bromide must maintain the certifications as records for 3 years.

(iii) Every third party applicator of a quantity of critical use methyl bromide must maintain invoice and order records related to the sale of such material for 3 years.

(2) Reporting—Every third party applicator of critical use methyl bromide must report to the Administrator annually, the following items:

(i) For critical uses of class I, Group VI controlled substances, an annual list of the amount of critical use methyl bromide bought;

(ii) For critical uses of class I, Group VI controlled substances, an annual list of the amount of critical use methyl bromide sold for each specified critical use in appendix L of this subpart;

(iii) For critical uses of class I, Group VI controlled substances, report annually the amount of critical use methyl bromide owned by the reporting entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, along with the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held;

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) The amount of methyl bromide produced or imported prior to the January 1, 2005 phaseout date owned by the reporting entity, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held.

(dd) Every approved critical user purchasing an amount of critical use methyl bromide or purchasing fumigation services with critical use methyl bromide must, for each request, identify the use as a critical use and certify being an approved critical user. The approved critical user certification will state, in part: &#x201C;I certify, under penalty of law, I am an approved critical user and I will use this quantity of methyl bromide for an approved critical use. My action conforms to the requirements associated with the critical use exemption published in 40 CFR part 82. I am aware that any agricultural commodity within a treatment chamber, facility or field I fumigate with critical use methyl bromide cannot subsequently or concurrently be fumigated with non-critical use methyl bromide during the same control period, excepting a QPS treatment or a treatment for a different use (e.g., a different crop or commodity). I will not use this quantity of methyl bromide for a treatment chamber, facility, or field that I previously fumigated with non-critical use methyl bromide during the same control period, excepting a QPS treatment or a treatment for a different use (e.g., a different crop or commodity), unless a local township limit now prevents me from using methyl bromide alternatives or I have now become an approved critical user as a result of rulemaking.&#x201D; The certification will also identify the type of critical use methyl bromide purchased, the location of the treatment, the crop or commodity treated, the quantity of critical use methyl bromide purchased, and the acreage/square footage treated, and will be signed and dated by the approved critical user.

(ee) Process agents. Any entity that uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent must comply, in addition to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 82.25, with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements for each facility that uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent:

(1) Reporting—one-time report. By February 7, 2025, or within 120 days of the date that an entity first uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent, whichever is later, any entity that uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent must submit to the Administrator a report containing the following information for each use of a class I controlled substance as a process agent:

(i) The name and address of each facility and plant, and each responsible person's name, email address, and phone number;

(ii) The name, purpose, and final product manufactured of each process agent application that uses a class I controlled substance;

(iii) The start-up date of each facility and the start-up date of each plant that uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent;

(iv) For each facility, the names and amounts of each product and byproduct manufactured in the process agent application during the previous control period, including amounts destroyed or used as a feedstock;

(v) For each facility, the total air, fugitive air, and stack point air emissions of class I controlled substances used as a process agent during the previous control period;

(vi) For each facility, a description of technologies currently being used and actions taken or currently under evaluation to minimize use or emissions of class I controlled substances used as process agents (including estimated emissions reductions associated with each); and

(vii) For each facility, a description that includes details of the percentages of class I controlled substances used as a process agent and:

(A) Retained within the process agent application;

(B) Consumed in the process agent application;

(C) Recovered after the process agent application;

(D) Emitted; and

(E) Entrained in the final product.

(2) Annual reports. Any entity that uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent must provide by February 14 of each year an annual report for the previous control period containing the following information for each use of the class I controlled substance as a process agent:

(i) For each facility, contact information including email address and phone number for a primary and alternate contact person;

(ii) For each facility, the name and amount of each class I controlled substance initially introduced into the process agent application for use as a process agent, specified independently for paragraphs (ee)(2)(ii)(A) through (G) of this section by whether the class I controlled substance was:

(A) Obtained as virgin;

(B) Obtained as used;

(C) Produced by the entity;

(D) Purchased from a U.S. producer;

(E) Imported;

(F) Reclaimed by the entity from a different use; and

(G) Reclaimed by another entity;

(iii) For each facility, the name and amount of each class I controlled substance used as a process agent and reused or recycled for use by the entity for continued use in the same process agent application at the same facility;

(iv) For each facility, the name and amount of each class I controlled substance used as a process agent that was ultimately:

(A) Transformed;

(B) Reused or recycled for use in a different process agent application; or

(C) Destroyed by approved destruction technologies;

(v) For each facility, the total air, fugitive air, and stack point air emissions of each class I controlled substance used as a process agent;

(vi) For each facility, the names and amounts of each product and byproduct manufactured in the process agent application during the previous control period, including amounts destroyed or used as a feedstock;

(vii) For each facility, a description of emission reduction actions for class I controlled substances used as a process agent taken since the last one-time or annual report, planned, or currently under evaluation; and

(viii) For each entity, any process agent application changes anticipated to result in increases for the next annual report, as compared to the previous control period and the average of the three previous control periods, of the following magnitude must be specified in a report submitted to EPA at least 180 days prior to implementing the change:

(A) Greater than 20 percent of the amount of class I controlled substance initially introduced for use as a process agent; or

(B) At least one metric ton and 20 percent of the amount emitted during use as a process agent.

(3) Recordkeeping. Every entity who uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent during a control period must maintain the following records, as applicable:

(i) Dated records of the quantity of each class I controlled substance initially introduced at each facility into the process application for use as a process agent;

(ii) Dated records of the quantity of each class I controlled substance produced at each facility for use as a process agent;

(iii) Records identifying the producer or importer of the class I controlled substance received at each facility for use as a process agent by the entity;

(iv) For each facility, copies of the invoices or receipts documenting the sale or other transfer of ownership of each class I controlled substance for use as a process agent to the entity;

(v) Dated records identifying the quantity of each product manufactured within each facility by using a class I controlled substance as a process agent;

(vi) For each facility, records of the date and the estimated quantity of any spill or release of each class I controlled substance used as a process agent that equals or exceeds 100 pounds;

(vii) For each facility, a description of the methodology used to measure and calculate emissions, and dated records of equipment parameters, measured data, supporting calculations, and other rationale used to validate reported emission quantities;

(viii) For each facility, dated records of the quantity of each class I controlled substance used as a process agent which is subsequently transformed or destroyed;

(ix) In the case where class I controlled substances used as a process agent were ultimately transformed by an entity other than the entity which last used the class I controlled substances as a process agent, a copy of the Internal Revenue Service Certificate showing that the purchaser or recipient of the controlled substance, in the United States or in another country that is a Party, certifies the intent to transform the controlled substance, or sell the controlled substance for transformation; and

(x) In the case where class I controlled substances used as a process agent were ultimately destroyed by an entity other than the entity which last used the class I controlled substances as a process agent, a copy of the destruction verification (as in paragraph (k) of this section), showing that the purchaser or recipient of a controlled substance, in the United States or in another country that is a Party, certifies the intent to destroy the controlled substance, or sell the controlled substance for destruction.

(4) Request for extension. Any entity that uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent may request an extension to comply with paragraph (ee)(1) of this section.

(i) This request must include the following information:

(A) Name of the facility submitting the request, contact information for a person at the facility, and the address of the facility;

(B) An explanation of the reasons that an extension is necessary and the timeline that would be practicable; and

(C) Supporting documentation of the circumstances.

(ii) The Administrator will review the request and, within five working days of receiving a complete request, provide notification of whether the request is granted and when the report is due.

(5) Notification that use has ceased. Reports are no longer required for process agent use starting in the year after an entity notifies the Administrator that they have permanently ceased use of all class I controlled substances as a process agent, but the entity must continue to comply with all applicable recordkeeping requirements.
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995]

Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting § 82.13, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov.

### § 82.14 Process for electronic reporting.

(a) Starting May 18, 2020, reports and petitions that are available to be submitted through the Central Data Exchange or another format specified by EPA, as well as any related supporting documents, must be submitted through that tool.

(b) Entities can register and access the Central Data Exchange as follows:

(1) Go to EPA's Central Data Exchange website at https://cdx.epa.gov and follow the links for the submission of ozone-depleting substances.

(2) Call EPA's Central Data Exchange Help Desk at 1-888-890-1995.

(3) Email the EPA's Central Data Exchange Help Desk at HelpDesk@epacdx.net.
[85 FR 15296, Mar. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 82432, Oct. 10, 2024]

### § 82.15 Prohibitions for class II controlled substances.

(a) Production. (1) Effective January 21, 2003, no person may produce class II controlled substances for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances, in excess of the quantity of unexpended production allowances, unexpended Article 5 allowances, unexpended export production allowances, or conferred unexpended HCFC-141b exemption allowances held by that person for that substance under the authority of this subpart at that time in that control period, unless the substances are transformed or destroyed domestically or by a person of another Party, or unless they are produced using an exemption granted in paragraph (f) of this section. Every kilogram of excess production constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(2) Effective January 21, 2003, no person may use production allowances to produce a quantity of class II controlled substance unless that person holds under the authority of this subpart at the same time consumption allowances sufficient to cover that quantity of class II controlled substances. No person may use consumption allowances to produce a quantity of class II controlled substances unless the person holds under authority of this subpart at the same time production allowances sufficient to cover that quantity of class II controlled substances.

(b) Import. (1) Effective January 21, 2003, no person may import class II controlled substances (other than transhipments, heels or used class II controlled substances) for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances , in excess of the quantity of unexpended consumption allowances, or conferred unexpended HCFC-141b exemption allowances held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time in that control period, unless the substances are for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, or unless they are produced using an exemption granted in paragraph (f) of this section. Every kilogram of excess import constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(2) Effective January 21, 2003, no person may import, at any time in any control period, a used class II controlled substance for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances, without having submitted a petition to the Administrator and received a non-objection notice in accordance with § 82.24(c)(3) and (4). A person issued a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of used class II controlled substances may not transfer or confer the right to import, and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the used class II controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. Every kilogram of import of used class II controlled substance in excess of the quantity stated in the non-objection notice issued by the Administrator in accordance with § 82.24(c)(3) and (4) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(3) No person may import for purposes of destruction, at any time in any control period, a class II controlled substance for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances, without having submitted a certification of intent to import for destruction to the Administrator and received a non-objection notice in accordance with § 82.24(c)(6). A person issued a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of class II controlled substances for destruction may not transfer or confer the right to import and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the class II controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. For imports intended to be destroyed in the United States, a person issued a non-objection notice must destroy the controlled substance within one year of the date stamped on the non-objection letter, may not transfer or confer the right to import, and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the class II controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. Every kilogram of import of class II controlled substance in excess of the quantity stated in the non-objection notice issued by the Administrator in accordance with § 82.24(c)(6) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(c) Production with Article 5 allowances. No person may introduce into U.S. interstate commerce any class II controlled substance produced with Article 5 allowances, except for export to an Article 5 Party as listed in Appendix E of this subpart. Every kilogram of a class II controlled substance produced with Article 5 allowances that is introduced into interstate commerce other than for export to an Article 5 Party constitutes a separate violation under this subpart. No person may export any class II controlled substance produced with Article 5 allowances to a non-Article 5 Party. Every kilogram of a class II controlled substance that was produced with Article 5 allowances that is exported to a non-Article 5 Party constitutes a separate violation under this subpart.

(d) Production with export production allowances. No person may introduce into U.S. interstate commerce any class II controlled substance produced with export production allowances. Every kilogram of a class II controlled substance that was produced with export production allowances that is introduced into U.S. interstate commerce constitutes a separate violation under this subpart.

(e) Trade with Parties. No person may import or export any quantity of a class II controlled substance listed in Appendix A to this subpart, from or to any foreign state that is not either:

(1) A Party to the Beijing Amendment. As of March 14, 2014, the following foreign states had not ratified the Beijing Amendment: Kazakhstan, Libya, and Mauritania. For updates on ratification status, see the Ozone Secretariat's Web site at: http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php. Or,

(2) A foreign state not party to the Beijing Amendment that is complying with the Beijing Amendment as defined in this subpart.

(f) Exemptions. (1) Medical Devices [Reserved]

(g) Introduction into interstate commerce or use. (1) Effective January 1, 2010, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use HCFC-141b (unless used, recovered, and recycled) for any purpose except for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a); for HCFC-141b exemption needs; as a transhipment or heel; or for exemptions permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.

(2)(i) Effective January 1, 2010, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use HCFC-22 or HCFC-142b (unless used, recovered, and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2010; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a); as a transhipment or heel; or for exemptions permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.

(ii) Introduction into interstate commerce and use of HCFC-22 is not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section if the HCFC-22 is for use in medical equipment prior to January 1, 2015; for use in thermostatic expansion valves prior to January 1, 2015; or for use as a refrigerant in appliances manufactured before January 1, 2012, provided that the components are manufactured prior to January 1, 2010, and are specified in a building permit or a contract dated before January 1, 2010, for use on a particular project.

(3) Effective January 1, 2015, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use HCFC-141b (unless used, recovered, and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a), as a transhipment or heel; or for exemptions permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.

(4)(i) Effective January 1, 2015, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use any class II controlled substance not governed by paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section (unless used, recovered and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020; for use as a fire suppression streaming agent listed as acceptable for use or acceptable subject to narrowed use limits for nonresidential applications in accordance with the regulations at subpart G of this part; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a); as a transhipment or heel; for exemptions permitted under paragraph (f) of this section; or for exemptions permitted under paragraph (g)(4)(ii) or (iii) of this section.

(ii) Effective January 1, 2015, use of HCFC-225ca or HCFC-225cb as a solvent (excluding use in manufacturing a product containing HCFC-225ca or HCFC-225cb) is not subject to the use prohibition in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section if the person using the HCFC-225ca or HCFC-225cb placed the controlled substance into inventory before January 1, 2015. This paragraph does not create an exemption to the prohibition on introduction into interstate commerce in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section.

(iii) Effective January 1, 2015, use of HCFC-124 as a sterilant for the manufacture and testing of biological indicators is not subject to the use prohibition in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section if the person using the HCFC-124 placed the controlled substance into inventory before January 1, 2015. This paragraph does not create an exemption to the prohibition on introduction into interstate commerce in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section.

(5)(i) Effective January 1, 2020, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use HCFC-123 or HCFC-124 (unless used, recovered and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020; for use as a fire suppression streaming agent listed as acceptable for use or acceptable subject to narrowed use limits for nonresidential applications in accordance with the regulations at subpart G of this part and only to the extent permitted under paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a); as a transhipment or heel; or for exemptions permitted under paragraph (f) of this section.

(ii) HCFC-123 that was produced or imported on or after January 1, 2020 may be used as a fire suppression streaming agent only to service equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020. HCFC-123 that was produced or imported prior to January 1, 2020 (or used, recovered and recycled) may be used as a fire suppression streaming agent in equipment manufactured before, on, or after January 1, 2020.

(iii) Notwithstanding the prohibition on use in paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section, the use of HCFC-123 as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured on or after January 1, 2020 but before January 1, 2021 is permitted if the conditions of this paragraph (g)(5)(iii) are met. The HCFC-123 must be in the possession of an entity that will complete the manufacture of the appliance and imported prior to January 1, 2020. The appliance components must be ready for shipment to a construction location prior to July 24, 2019 and be specified in a building permit or a contract dated before July 24, 2019 for use on a particular project. All HCFC-123 used to service such appliances on or after January 1, 2021 must be used, recovered, or recycled.

(6) Effective January 1, 2030, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use any class II controlled substance (unless used, recovered, and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a); as a transhipment or heel; or for exemptions permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.

(7) Effective January 1, 2040, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use any class II controlled substance (unless used, recovered, and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction, as a transhipment or heel, or for exemptions permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.

(8) No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, any class II substance that they know, or have reason to know, was imported in violation of this section, except for such actions needed to re-export the controlled substance. Every kilogram of a controlled substance imported in contravention of this paragraph (g)(8) that is sold or distributed, or offered for sale or distribution, constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
[68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 34031, June 17, 2004; 71 FR 41171, July 20, 2006; 74 FR 66445, Dec. 15, 2009; 79 FR 16686, Mar. 26, 2014; 79 FR 64286, Oct. 28, 2014; 85 FR 15296, Mar. 17, 2020; 85 FR 15296, Mar. 17, 2020]

### § 82.16 Phaseout schedule of class II controlled substances.

(a)(1) Calendar-year allowances. In each control period as indicated in the following tables, each person is granted the specified percentage of baseline production allowances and baseline consumption allowances for the specified class II controlled substances apportioned under §§ 82.17 and 82.19:

Table 1 to Paragraph (a)—Calendar-Year HCFC Production Allowances

Control period
Percent of HCFC-141b
Percent of HCFC-22
Percent of HCFC-142b
Percent of HCFC-123
Percent of HCFC-124
Percent of HCFC-225ca
Percent of HCFC-225cb

2003
0
100
100

2004
0
100
100

2005
0
100
100

2006
0
100
100

2007
0
100
100

2008
0
100
100

2009
0
100
100

2010
0
41.9
0.47
0
125
125
125

2011
0
32
4.9
0
125
125
125

2012
0
17.7
4.9
0
125
125
125

2013
0
30.1
4.9
0
125
125
125

2014
0
26.1
4.9
0
125
125
125

2015
0
21.7
0.37
0
5
0
0

2016
0
21.7
0.32
0
5
0
0

2017
0
21.7
0.26
0
5
0
0

2018
0
21.7
0.21
0
5
0
0

2019
0
21.7
0.16
0
5
0
0

2020
0
0
0
0
5.0
0
0

2021
0
0
0
0
5.0
0
0

2022
0
0
0
0
5.0
0
0

2023
0
0
0
0
4.4
0
0

2024
0
0
0
0
3.8
0
0

2025
0
0
0
0
3.2
0
0

2026
0
0
0
0
2.5
0
0

2027
0
0
0
0
1.9
0
0

2028
0
0
0
0
1.3
0
0

2029
0
0
0
0
0.7
0
0

2030
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

Table 2 to Paragraph (a)—Calendar-Year HCFC Consumption Allowances

Control period
Percent of HCFC-141b
Percent of HCFC-22
Percent of HCFC-142b
Percent of HCFC-123
Percent of HCFC-124
Percent of HCFC-225ca
Percent of HCFC-225cb

2003
0
100
100

2004
0
100
100

2005
0
100
100

2006
0
100
100

2007
0
100
100

2008
0
100
100

2009
0
100
100

2010
0
41.9
0.47
125
125
125
125

2011
0
32
4.9
125
125
125
125

2012
0
17.7
4.9
125
125
125
125

2013
0
18
4.9
125
125
125
125

2014
0
14.2
4.9
125
125
125
125

2015
0
7
1.7
100
8.3
0
0

2016
0
5.6
1.5
100
8.3
0
0

2017
0
4.2
1.2
100
8.3
0
0

2018
0
2.8
1
100
8.3
0
0

2019
0
1.4
0.7
100
8.3
0
0

2020
0
0
0
32.3
8.3
0
0

2021
0
0
0
32.3
8.3
0
0

2022
0
0
0
32.3
8.3
0
0

2023
0
0
0
28.4
7.3
0
0

2024
0
0
0
24.4
6.3
0
0

2025
0
0
0
20.4
5.3
0
0

2026
0
0
0
16.4
4.2
0
0

2027
0
0
0
12.5
3.2
0
0

2028
0
0
0
8.5
2.2
0
0

2029
0
0
0
4.5
1.1
0
0

2030
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

(2) Recoupment allowances. In the control period beginning January 1, 2013 and ending December 31, 2013, and again in the control period beginning January 1, 2014 and ending December 31, 2014, certain companies are granted HCFC consumption and production allowances in addition to the percentage of baseline listed in the table at paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The following companies will receive the amounts listed below in both 2013 and 2014: 2,374,846 kg of HCFC-22 consumption allowances and 2,305,924 kg of HCFC-22 production allowances to Arkema; 1,170 kg of HCFC-142b consumption allowances to DuPont; 29,146 kg of HCFC-142b consumption allowances and 53,549 kg of HCFC-142b production allowances to Honeywell; 578,948 kg of HCFC-22 consumption allowances to Solvay Fluorides; and 144,900 kg of HCFC-142b production allowances to Solvay Solexis.

(b) Effective January 1, 2003, no person may produce HCFC-141b except for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction, for export under § 82.18(a) using unexpended Article 5 allowances, for export under § 82.18(b) using unexpended export production allowances, for HCFC-141b exemption needs using unexpended HCFC-141b exemption allowances, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f). Effective January 1, 2003, no person may import HCFC-141b (other than transhipments, heels or used class II controlled substances) in excess of the quantity of unexpended HCFC-141b exemption allowances held by that person except for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f).

(c) Effective January 1, 2010, no person may produce HCFC-22 or HCFC-142b for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, for use in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2010, for export under § 82.18(a) using unexpended Article 5 allowances, or for export under § 82.18(b) using unexpended export production allowances, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f). Effective January 1, 2010, no person may import HCFC-22 or HCFC-142b (other than transhipments, heels or used class II controlled substances) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f), or for use in equipment manufactured prior to January 1, 2010.

(d) Effective January 1, 2015, no person may produce class II controlled substances not previously controlled for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020, for use as a fire suppression streaming agent listed as acceptable for use or acceptable subject to narrowed use limits for nonresidential applications in accordance with the regulations at subpart G of this part, for export under § 82.18(a) using unexpended Article 5 allowances, for export under § 82.18(b) using unexpended export production allowances, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f). Effective January 1, 2015, no person may import class II controlled substances not subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section (other than transhipments, heels, or used class II controlled substances) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f), for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured prior to January 1, 2020, or for use as a fire suppression streaming agent listed as acceptable for use or acceptable subject to narrowed use limits for nonresidential applications in accordance with the regulations at subpart G of this part.

(e)(1) Effective January 1, 2020, no person may produce HCFC-22 or HCFC-142b for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, for export under § 82.18(a) using unexpended Article 5 allowances, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f). Effective January 1, 2020, no person may import HCFC-22 or HCFC-142b for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f).

(2) Effective January 1, 2020, no person may produce HCFC-123 for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction, for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020, for export under § 82.18(a) using unexpended Article 5 allowances, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f). Effective January 1, 2020, no person may import HCFC-123 for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction, for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020, for use as a fire suppression streaming agent in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020 and listed as acceptable for use or acceptable subject to narrowed use limits for nonresidential applications, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f).

(f) Effective January 1, 2030, no person may produce class II controlled substances, for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, for export under § 82.18(a) using unexpended Article 5 allowances, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f). Effective January 1, 2030, no person may import class II controlled substances for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f).

(g) Effective January 1, 2040, no person may produce class II controlled substances for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f).

(h) [Reserved]
[68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 41171, July 20, 2006; 74 FR 66446, Dec. 15, 2009; 76 FR 47467, Aug. 5, 2011; 78 FR 20027, Apr. 3, 2013; 79 FR 64286, Oct. 28, 2014; 85 FR 15296, Mar. 17, 2020]

### § 82.17 Apportionment of baseline production allowances for class II controlled substances.

The following persons are apportioned baseline production allowances for HCFC-22, HCFC-141b, HCFC-142b, HCFC-123, HCFC-124, HCFC-225ca, and HCFC-225cb as set forth in the following table:

Person
Controlled substance
Allowances(kg)

AGC Chemicals Americas
HCFC-225ca
266,608

HCFC-225cb
373,952

Arkema
HCFC-22
46,692,336

HCFC-141b
24,647,925

HCFC-142b
484,369

DuPont
HCFC-22
42,638,049

HCFC-124
2,269,210

Honeywell
HCFC-22
37,378,252

HCFC-141b
28,705,200

HCFC-142b
2,417,534

HCFC-124
1,759,681

MDA Manufacturing
HCFC-22
2,383,835

Solvay Specialty Polymers USA, LLC
HCFC-142b
6,541,764

[79 FR 64287, Oct. 28, 2014]

### § 82.18 Availability of production in addition to baseline production allowances for class II controlled substances.

(a) Article 5 allowances. (1) Effective January 1, 2003, a person apportioned baseline production allowances for HCFC-141b, HCFC-22, or HCFC-142b under § 82.17 is also apportioned Article 5 allowances, equal to 15 percent of their baseline production allowances, for the specified HCFC for each control period up until December 31, 2009, to be used for the production of the specified HCFC for export only to foreign states listed in appendix E to this subpart.

(2) Effective January 1, 2010, a person apportioned baseline production allowances under § 82.17 for HCFC-141b, HCFC-22, or HCFC-142b is also apportioned Article 5 allowances, equal to 10 percent of their baseline production allowances, for the specified HCFC for each control period up until December 31, 2019, to be used for the production of the specified HCFC for export only to foreign states listed in appendix E to this subpart.

(3) Effective January 1, 2015, a person apportioned baseline production allowances under § 82.17 for HCFC-123, HCFC-124, HCFC-225ca, and HCFC-225cb is also apportioned Article 5 allowances, equal to 10 percent of their baseline production allowances, for the specified HCFC for each control period up until December 31, 2019, to be used for the production of the specified HCFC for export only to foreign states listed in appendix E to this subpart.

(b) Export Production Allowances. (1) Effective January 1, 2003, a person apportioned baseline production allowances for HCFC-141b under § 82.17 is also apportioned export production allowances, equal to 100 percent of their baseline production allowances, for HCFC-141b for each control period up until December 31, 2009, to be used for the production of HCFC-141b for export only, in accordance with this section.

(2) [Reserved]

(c) International trades of production allowances, export production allowances and Article 5 allowances. (1) A person may increase or decrease their production allowances, export production allowances, or Article 5 allowances, for a specified control period through trades with a foreign state that is Party to the Beijing Amendment or is complying with the Beijing Amendment as defined in this subpart. The foreign state must agree either to trade to the person for the current control period some quantity of production that the foreign state is permitted under the Montreal Protocol or to receive from the person for the current control period some quantity of production that the person is permitted under this subpart. The person must expend their consumption allowances allocated under § 82.19, or obtained under § 82.20 in order to produce with the additional production allowances.

(2) Trade from a Party—Information requirements. (i) A person requesting a trade from a Party must submit to the Administrator a signed document from the principal diplomatic representative in that nation's embassy in the U.S. stating that the appropriate authority within that nation will establish or revise production limits for the nation to equal the lowest of the following three production quantities:

(A) The maximum production that the nation is allowed under the Protocol minus the quantity (in kilograms) to be traded;

(B) The maximum production that is allowed under the nation's applicable domestic law minus the quantity (in kilograms) to be traded; or

(C) The average of the nation's actual national production level for the three years prior to the trade minus the production to be traded.

(ii) A person requesting a trade from a Party must also submit to the Administrator a true copy of the document that sets forth the following:

(A) The identity and address of the person;

(B) The identity of the Party;

(C) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the person and for the Party;

(D) The chemical type and quantity (in kilograms) of production being traded;

(E) Documentation that the Party possesses the necessary quantity of unexpended production rights;

(F) The control period(s) to which the trade applies; and

(G) For increased production intended for export to the Party from whom the allowances would be received, a signed statement of intent to export to the Party.

(3) Trade to a Party—Information requirements. A person requesting a trade to a Party must submit a request that sets forth the following information to the Administrator:

(i) The identity and address of the person;

(ii) The identity of the Party;

(iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the person and for the Party;

(iv) The chemical type and quantity (in kilograms) of allowable production being traded; and

(v) The control period(s) to which the trade applies.

(4) Review of international trade request to a Party. After receiving a trade request that meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the Administrator may, at his/her discretion, consider the following factors by seeking concurrence from the Department of Commerce, the United States Trade Representative, and the Department of State, where appropriate, in deciding whether to approve such a trade:

(i) Possible creation of domestic economic hardship;

(ii) Possible effects on trade;

(iii) Potential environmental implications; and

(iv) The total quantity of unexpended production allowances held by U.S. entities.

(5) Notice of trade. If the request meets the requirement of paragraph (c)(2) of this section for trades from Parties and paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section for trades to Parties, the Administrator will issue the person a notice. The notice will either grant or deduct production allowances or export production allowances or Article 5 allowances and specify the control period to which the trade applies. The Administrator may disapprove the trade request contingent on the consideration of factors listed in paragraph (c)(4) of this section for trades to Parties.

(i) For trades from a Party, the Administrator will issue a notice revising the allowances held by the recipient of the trade to equal the unexpended production allowances, unexpended export production allowances, or unexpended Article 5 allowances held by the recipient of the trade under this subpart plus the quantity of allowable production traded from the Party.

(ii) For trades to a Party, the Administrator will issue a notice revising the production limit for the trader to equal the lesser of:

(A) The unexpended production allowances, unexpended export production allowances or unexpended Article 5 allowances held by the trade or minus the quantity traded; or

(B) The unexpended production allowances held by the trader minus the amount by which the U.S. average annual production of the class II controlled substance being traded for the three years prior to the trade is less than the total allowable production of that class II controlled substance under this subpart minus the amount traded; or

(C) The total U.S. allowable production of the class II controlled substance being traded minus the three-year average of the actual annual U.S. production of the class II controlled substance prior to the control period of the trade.

(6) Revised notices of production limits for subsequent traders. If after one person obtains approval of a trade of allowable production of a class II controlled substance to a Party and other persons obtain approval for trades of the same class II controlled substance during the same control period, the Administrator will issue revised notices. The notices will revise the production limits for each of the other persons trading to equal the lesser of:

(i) The unexpended production allowances, unexpended export production allowances or unexpended Article 5 allowances held by the trader under this subpart minus the quantity traded; or

(ii) The result of the following set of calculations:

(A) The total U.S. allowable production of the class II controlled substance minus the three-year average of the actual annual U.S. production of the class II controlled substance prior to the control period of the trade;

(B) The quantity traded divided by the total quantity traded by all the other persons trading the same class II controlled substance in the same control period;

(C) The result of paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(A) of this section multiplied by the result of paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(B) of this section;

(D) The quantity derived in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, minus the result of paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(C) of this section;

(7) Production limit for previous traders. The Administrator will also issue a notice revising the production limit for each trader who previously obtained approval of a trade of the class II controlled substance to a Party in the same control period to equal the result of the following set of calculations:

(i) The total U.S. allowable production of the class II controlled substance minus the three-year average of the actual annual U.S. production of the class II controlled substance prior to the control period of the trade;

(ii) The quantity traded by the person divided by the quantity traded by all the persons who have traded that class II controlled substance in that control period;

(iii) The result of paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section multiplied by the result of paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this section.

(iv) The unexpended production allowances, unexpended export production allowances or unexpended Article 5 allowances held by the person plus the result of paragraph (c)(7)(iii) of this section;

(8) Effective date of revised production limits. The change in production allowances, export production allowances or Article 5 allowances will be effective on the date that the notice is issued.
[68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 66446, Dec. 15, 2009; 79 FR 16687, Mar. 26, 2014]

### § 82.19 Apportionment of baseline consumption allowances for class II controlled substances.

The following persons are apportioned baseline consumption allowances for HCFC-22, HCFC-142b, HCFC-123, HCFC-124, HCFC-225ca, and HCFC-225cb as set forth in the following table:

Person
Controlled substance
Allowances(kg)

ABCO Refrigeration Supply
HCFC-22
279,366

AGC Chemicals Americas
HCFC-225ca
285,328

HCFC-225cb
286,832

Altair Partners
HCFC-22
302,011

Arkema
HCFC-22
48,637,642

HCFC-141b
25,405,570

HCFC-142b
483,827

HCFC-124
3,719

Carrier
HCFC-22
54,088

Continental Industrial Group
HCFC-141b
20,315

Coolgas, Inc.
HCFC-141b
16,097,869

Combs Investment Property
HCFC-22
1,040,458

HCFC-123
19,980

HCFC-124
3,742

Discount Refrigerants
HCFC-141b
994

DuPont
HCFC-22
38,814,862

HCFC-141b
9,049

HCFC-142b
52,797

HCFC-123
1,877,042

HCFC-124
743,312

H.G. Refrigeration Supply
HCFC-22
40,068

Honeywell
HCFC-22
35,392,492

HCFC-141b
20,749,489

HCFC-142b
1,315,819

HCFC-124
1,284,265

ICC Chemical Corp.
HCFC-141b
81,225

ICOR
HCFC-124
81,220

Mexichem Fluor Inc.
HCFC-22
2,546,305

Kivlan & Company
HCFC-22
2,081,018

MDA Manufacturing
HCFC-22
2,541,545

Mondy Global
HCFC-22
281,824

National Refrigerants
HCFC-22
5,528,316

HCFC-123
72,600

HCFC-124
50,380

Perfect Technology Center, LP
HCFC-123
9,100

Refricenter of Miami
HCFC-22
381,293

Refricentro
HCFC-22
45,979

R-Lines
HCFC-22
63,172

Saez Distributors
HCFC-22
37,936

Solvay Fluorides, LLC
HCFC-22
3,781,691

HCFC-141b
3,940,115

Solvay Specialty Polymers USA, LLC
HCFC-142b
194,536

Tulstar Products
HCFC-141b
89,913

HCFC-123
34,800

HCFC-124
229,582

USA Refrigerants
HCFC-22
14,865

[79 FR 64288, Oct. 28, 2014]

### § 82.20 Availability of consumption allowances in addition to baseline consumption allowances for class II controlled substances.

(a) A person may obtain at any time during the control period, in accordance with the provisions of this section, consumption allowances equivalent to the quantity of class II controlled substances that the person exported from the United States and its territories to a foreign state in accordance with this section, when that quantity of class II controlled substance was produced in the U.S. or imported into the United States with expended consumption allowances. Both the export of the class II controlled substance and the request for additional consumption allowances must occur during a calendar year in which consumption allowances were issued for that class II controlled substance.

(1) The exporter must submit to the Administrator a request for consumption allowances setting forth the following:

(i) The identities and addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the exports;

(ii) The exporter's Employer Identification Number;

(iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the exporter and the recipient;

(iv) The quantity (in kilograms) and type of class II controlled substances reported;

(v) The source of the class II controlled substances and the date purchased;

(vi) The date on which, and the port from which, the class II controlled substances were exported from the U.S. or its territories;

(vii) The country to which the class II controlled substances were exported;

(viii) A copy of the bill of lading and the invoice indicating the net quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances shipped and documenting the sale of the class II controlled substances to the purchaser;

(ix) The commodity codes of the class II controlled substances reported; and

(x) A written statement from the producer that the class II controlled substances were produced with expended allowances or a written statement from the importer that the class II controlled substances were imported with expended allowances.

(2) The Administrator will review the information and documentation submitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and will issue a notice.

(i) The Administrator will determine the quantity of class II controlled substances that the documentation verifies was exported and issue consumption allowances equivalent to the quantity of class II controlled substances that were exported.

(A) The grant of the consumption allowances will be effective on the date the notice is issued.

(B) The consumption allowances will be granted to the person the exporter indicates, whether it is the producer, the importer, or the exporter.

(ii) The Administrator will issue a notice that the consumption allowances are not granted if the Administrator determines that the information and documentation do not satisfactorily substantiate the exporter's claims.

(b) International trades of consumption allowances. (1) A person may increase its consumption allowances for a specified control period through trades with another Party to the Protocol as set forth in this paragraph (b). A person may only receive consumption from Poland or Norway, or both, and only if the nation agrees to trade to the person for the current control period some quantity of consumption that the nation is permitted under the Montreal Protocol.

(2) Trade from a Party—Information requirements. A person must submit the following information to the Administrator:

(i) A signed document from the principal diplomatic representative in the Polish or Norwegian embassy in the U.S. stating that the appropriate authority within that nation will establish or revise consumption limits for the nation to equal the lowest of the following three consumption quantities:

(A) The maximum consumption that the nation is allowed under the Protocol minus the quantity (in kilograms) traded;

(B) The maximum consumption that is allowed under the nation's applicable domestic law minus the quantity (in kilograms) traded; or

(C) The average of the nation's actual consumption level for the three years prior to the trade minus the consumption traded.

(ii) A person requesting a consumption trade from Poland or Norway must also submit to the Administrator a true copy of the document that sets forth the following:

(A) The identity and address of the person;

(B) The identity of the Party;

(C) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the person and for the Party;

(D) The chemical type and quantity (in kilograms) of consumption being traded;

(E) Documentation that the Party possesses the necessary quantity of unexpended consumption rights;

(F) The control period(s) to which the trade applies; and

(3) Notice of trade. If the request meets the requirement of paragraph (b)(2) of this section for trades from Parties, the Administrator will issue the person a notice. The notice will grant consumption allowances and specify the control period to which the trade applies. The Administrator may disapprove the trade request if it does not meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(4) Trade from a Party. The Administrator will issue a notice revising the allowances held by the recipient of the trade to equal the unexpended consumption allowances held by the recipient of the trade under this subpart plus the quantity of allowable consumption traded from the Party.

(5) Effective date of revised consumption limits. The change in consumption allowances will be effective on the date that the notice is issued.
[68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 41172, July 20, 2006; 79 FR 64288, Oct. 28, 2014]

### §§ 82.21-82.22 [Reserved]

### § 82.23 Transfers of allowances of class II controlled substances.

(a) Inter-company transfers. Effective January 1, 2003, a person (&#x201C;transferor&#x201D;) may transfer to any other person (&#x201C;transferee&#x201D;) any quantity of the transferor's class II consumption allowances, production allowances, export production allowances, or Article 5 allowances for the same type of allowance as follows:

(i) The transferor must submit to the Administrator a transfer claim setting forth the following:

(A) The identities and addresses of the transferor and the transferee;

(B) The name and telephone numbers of contact persons for the transferor and the transferee;

(C) The type of allowances being transferred, including the names of the class II controlled substances for which allowances are to be transferred;

(D) The quantity (in kilograms) of allowances being transferred;

(E) The control period(s) for which the allowances are being transferred;

(F) [Reserved]

(G) For trades of consumption allowances, production allowances, export production allowances, or Article 5 allowances, the quantity of the 0.1 percent offset applied to the unweighted quantity traded that will be deducted from the transferor's allowance balance.

(ii) The Administrator will determine whether the records maintained by EPA indicate that the transferor possesses unexpended allowances sufficient to cover the transfer claim on the date the transfer claim is processed. The transfer claim is the quantity (in kilograms) to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. The Administrator will take into account any previous transfers, any production, and allowable imports and exports of class II controlled substances reported by the transferor. Within three working days of receiving a complete transfer claim, the Administrator will take action to notify the transferor and transferee as follows:

(A) The Administrator will issue a notice indicating that EPA does not object to the transfer if EPA's records show that the transferor has sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim. In the case of transfers of production or consumption allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. In the case of transfers of export production or Article 5 allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances, respectively, by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. The transferor and the transferee may proceed with the transfer when EPA issues a no objection notice. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and transferee, where applicable, will be held liable for any knowing violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.

(B) The Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the transfer if EPA's records show that the transferor has insufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim, or that the transferor has failed to respond to one or more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a determination. Either party may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the Administrator within 10 working days after receipt of notification. The Administrator may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that day.

(iii) The transferor and transferee may proceed with the transfer if the Administrator does not respond to a transfer claim within the three working days specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. In the case of transfers of production or consumption allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. In the case of transfers of export production allowances or Article 5 allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. If EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and/or the transferee, where applicable, will be held liable for any knowing violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.

(b) Inter-pollutant transfers. (1) Effective January 1, 2003, a person (transferor) may convert consumption allowances, production allowances or Article 5 allowances for one class II controlled substance to the same type of allowance for another class II controlled substance listed in appendix B of this subpart, following the procedures described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(i) A person (transferor) may only convert allowances for one class II controlled substance for which EPA has issued allowances under § 82.16 to another class II controlled substance for which EPA has issued allowances under § 82.16.

(ii) [Reserved]

(2) Inter-pollutant transfers will be permitted at any time during the control period and during the 30 days after the end of a control period.

(3) The transferor must submit to the Administrator a transfer claim that includes the following:

(i) The identity and address of the transferor;

(ii) The name and telephone number of a contact person for the transferor;

(iii) The type of allowances being converted, including the names of the class II controlled substances for which allowances are to be converted;

(iv) The quantity (in kilograms) and type of allowances to be converted;

(v) The quantity (in kilograms) of allowances to be subtracted from the transferor's unexpended allowances for the first class II controlled substance, to be equal to 100.1 percent of the quantity of allowances converted;

(vi) The quantity (in kilograms) of allowances to be added to the transferee's unexpended allowances for the second class II controlled substance, to be equal to the quantity (in kilograms) of allowances for the first class II controlled substance being converted multiplied by the quotient of the ozone depletion potential of the first class II controlled substance divided by the ozone depletion potential of the second class II controlled substance, as listed in Appendix B to this subpart;

(vii) The control period(s) for which the allowances are being converted; and

(viii) The quantity (in kilograms) of unexpended allowances of the type and for the control period being converted that the transferor holds under authority of this subpart as of the date the claim is submitted to EPA.

(4) The Administrator will determine whether the records maintained by EPA indicate that the convertor possesses unexpended allowances sufficient to cover the transfer claim on the date the transfer claim is processed (i.e., the quantity (in kilograms) to be converted plus 0.1 percent of that quantity (in kilograms)). EPA will take into account any previous transfers, and any production, imports (not including transshipments or used class II controlled substances), or exports (not including transhipments or used class II controlled substances) of class II controlled substances reported by the convertor. Within three working days of receiving a complete transfer claim, the Administrator will take action to notify the convertor as follows:

(i) The Administrator will issue a notice indicating that EPA does not object to the transfer if EPA's records show that the convertor has sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim. EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be converted plus 0.1 percent of that quantity (in kilograms). When EPA issues a no objection notice, the transferor may proceed with the transfer. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.

(ii) The Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the transfer if EPA's records show that the transferor has insufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim, or that the transferor has failed to respond to one or more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a determination. The transferor may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the Administrator within 10 working days after receipt of notification. The Administrator may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that day.

(iii) The transferor may proceed with the transfer if the Administrator does not respond to a transfer claim within the three working days specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity (in kilograms) to be converted plus 0.1 percent of that quantity (in kilograms). The transferor will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances or credits to cover the claim.

(c) Inter-company transfers and Inter-pollutant transfers. If a person requests an inter-company transfer and an inter-pollutant transfer simultaneously, the quantity (in kilograms) subtracted from the transferor's unexpended production or consumption allowances for the first class II controlled substance will be equal to 100.1 percent of the quantity (in kilograms) of allowances that are being converted and transferred.

(d) Permanent transfers. The procedures in paragraph (a) of this section apply to permanent inter-company transfers of baseline production allowances or baseline consumption allowances. A person receiving a permanent transfer of baseline production allowances or baseline consumption allowances (the transferee) for a specific class II controlled substance will be the person who has their baseline allowances adjusted in accordance with phaseout schedules in this subpart. No person may conduct permanent inter-pollutant transfers of baseline production allowances or baseline consumption allowances.
[68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003, as amended at 78 FR 20028, Apr. 3, 2013; 85 FR 15298, Mar. 17, 2020]

### § 82.24 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements for class II controlled substances.

(a) Recordkeeping and reporting. Any person who produces, imports, exports, transforms, or destroys class II controlled substances must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:

(1) Reports required by this section must be submitted to the Administrator within 45 days of the end of the applicable reporting period, unless otherwise specified. Starting May 18, 2020, reports that are available for submission through the Central Data Exchange or another format specified by EPA must be submitted electronically through that tool.

(2) Revisions of reports that are required by this section must be mailed to the Administrator within 180 days of the end of the applicable reporting period, unless otherwise specified.

(3) Records and copies of reports required by this section must be retained for three years.

(4) Quantities of class II controlled substances must be stated in terms of kilograms in reports required by this section.

(5) Reports and records required by this section may be used for purposes of compliance determinations. These requirements are not intended as a limitation on the use of other evidence admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence. Failure to provide the reports, petitions and records required by this section and to certify the accuracy of the information in the reports, petitions and records required by this section, will be considered a violation of this subpart. False statements made in reports, petitions and records will be considered violations of Section 113 of the Clean Air Act and under 18 U.S.C. 1001.

(b) Producers. Persons (&#x201C;producers&#x201D;) who produce class II controlled substances during a control period must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:

(1) Reporting—Producers. For each quarter, each producer of a class II controlled substance must provide the Administrator with a report containing the following information:

(i) The quantity (in kilograms) of production of each class II controlled substance used in processes resulting in their transformation by the producer and the quantity (in kilograms) intended for transformation by a second party;

(ii) The quantity (in kilograms) of production of each class II controlled substance used in processes resulting in their destruction by the producer and the quantity (in kilograms) intended for destruction by a second party;

(iii) The expended allowances for each class II controlled substance;

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances sold or transferred during the quarter to a person other than the producer for use in processes resulting in their transformation or eventual destruction;

(vi) A list of the quantities and names of class II controlled substances, exported by the producer to a Party to the Protocol, that will be transformed or destroyed and therefore were not produced expending production or consumption allowances;

(vii) For transformation in the U.S. or by a person of another Party, one copy of a transformation verification from the transformer for a specific class II controlled substance and a list of additional quantities shipped to that same transformer for the quarter;

(viii) For destruction in the U.S. or by a person of another Party, one copy of a destruction verification as required in paragraph (e) of this section for a particular destroyer, destroying the same class II controlled substance, and a list of additional quantities shipped to that same destroyer for the quarter; and

(ix) [Reserved]

(x) In cases where the producer produced class II controlled substances using Article 5 allowances, a list of U.S. entities that purchased those class II controlled substances and exported them to Article 5 countries.

(2) Recordkeeping—Producers. Every producer of a class II controlled substance during a control period must maintain the following records:

(i) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of each class II controlled substance produced at each facility;

(ii) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances produced for use in processes that result in their transformation or for use in processes that result in their destruction;

(iii) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances sold for use in processes that result in their transformation or for use in processes that result in their destruction;

(iv) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances produced with Article 5 allowances;

(v) Copies of invoices or receipts documenting sale of class II controlled substances for use in processes that result in their transformation or for use in processes that result in their destruction;

(vi) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of each class II controlled substance used at each facility as feedstocks or destroyed in the manufacture of a class II controlled substance or in the manufacture of any other substance, and any class II controlled substance introduced into the production process of the same class II controlled substance at each facility;

(vii) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of raw materials and feedstock chemicals used at each facility for the production of class II controlled substances;

(viii) Dated records of the shipments of each class II controlled substance produced at each plant;

(ix) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances, the date received, and names and addresses of the source of used materials containing class II controlled substances which are recycled or reclaimed at each plant;

(x) Records of the date, the class II controlled substance, and the estimated quantity of any spill or release of a class II controlled substance that equals or exceeds 100 pounds;

(xi) Transformation verification in the case of transformation, or the destruction verification in the case of destruction as required in paragraph (e) of this section showing that the purchaser or recipient of a class II controlled substance, in the U.S. or in another country that is a Party, certifies the intent to either transform or destroy the class II controlled substance, or sell the class II controlled substance for transformation or destruction in cases when allowances were not expended; and

(xii) [Reserved]

(xiii) Written verifications from a U.S. purchaser that the class II controlled substance was exported to an Article 5 country in cases where Article 5 allowances were expended to produce the class II controlled substance.

(3) For any person who fails to maintain the records required by this paragraph, or to submit the report required by this paragraph, the Administrator may assume that the person has produced at full capacity during the period for which records were not kept, for purposes of determining whether the person has violated the prohibitions at § 82.15.

(c) Importers. Persons (&#x201C;importers&#x201D;) who import class II controlled substances during a control period must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:

(1) Reporting—Importers. For each quarter, an importer of a class II controlled substance (including importers of used class II controlled substances) must submit to the Administrator a report containing the following information:

(i) Summaries of the records required in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (xvi) of this section for the previous quarter;

(ii) The total quantity (in kilograms) imported of each class II controlled substance for that quarter;

(iii) The commodity code for the class II controlled substances imported, which must be one of those listed in appendix K to this subpart;

(iv) The quantity (in kilograms) of those class II controlled substances imported that are used class II controlled substances;

(v) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances imported for that quarter and totaled by chemical for the control period to date;

(vi) [Reserved]

(vii) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances imported for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction;

(viii) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances sold or transferred during that quarter to each person for use in processes resulting in their transformation or eventual destruction; and

(ix) Transformation verifications showing that the purchaser or recipient of imported class II controlled substances intends to transform those substances or destruction verifications showing that the purchaser or recipient intends to destroy the class II controlled substances (as provided in paragraph (e) of this section).

(2) Recordkeeping—Importers. An importer of a class II controlled substance (including used class II controlled substances) must maintain the following records:

(i) The quantity (in kilograms) of each class II controlled substance imported, either alone or in mixtures, including the percentage of each mixture which consists of a class II controlled substance;

(ii) The quantity (in kilograms) of those class II controlled substances imported that are used and the information provided with the petition where a petition is required under paragraph (c)(3) of this section;

(iii) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances other than transhipments or used substances imported for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction;

(iv) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances other than transhipments or used substances imported and sold for use in processes that result in their destruction or transformation;

(v) The date on which the class II controlled substances were imported;

(vi) The port of entry through which the class II controlled substances passed;

(vii) The country from which the imported class II controlled substances were imported;

(viii) The commodity code for the class II controlled substances shipped, which must be one of those listed in appendix K to this subpart;

(ix) The importer number for the shipment;

(x) A copy of the bill of lading for the import;

(xi) The invoice for the import;

(xii) The quantity (in kilograms) of imports of used class II controlled substances;

(xiii) The U.S. Customs entry number;

(xiv) Dated records documenting the sale or transfer of class II controlled substances for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction; and

(xv) Copies of transformation verifications or destruction verifications indicating that the class II controlled substances will be transformed or destroyed (as provided in paragraph (e) of this section).

(3) Petition to import used class II controlled substances and transhipment-Importers. For each individual shipment over 5 pounds of a used class II controlled substance as defined in § 82.3 for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances, an importer must submit directly to the Administrator, at least 40 working days before the shipment is to leave the foreign port of export, the following information in a petition:

(i) The name, commodity code and quantity (in kilograms) of the used class II controlled substance to be imported;

(ii) The name and address of the importer, the importer ID number, the contact person, email address, and phone number;

(iii) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of all previous source facilities from which the used class II controlled substance was recovered;

(iv) A detailed description of the previous use of the class II controlled substance at each source facility and a best estimate of when the specific controlled substance was put into the equipment at each source facility, and, when possible, documents indicating the date the material was put into the equipment;

(v) A list of the name, make and model number of the equipment from which the material was recovered at each source facility;

(vi) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the exporter and of all persons to whom the material was transferred or sold after it was recovered from the source facility;

(vii) The U.S. port of entry for the import, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the chemical. If at the time of submitting a petition the importer does not know the U.S. port of entry, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the chemical, and the importer receives a non-objection notice for the individual shipment in the petition, the importer is required to notify the Administrator of this information prior to the actual U.S. Customs entry of the individual shipment;

(viii) A description of the intended use of the used class II controlled substance, and, when possible, the name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the ultimate purchaser in the United States;

(ix) The name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the U.S. reclamation facility, where applicable;

(x) If someone at the source facility recovered the class II controlled substance from the equipment, the name, email address, and phone number of that person;

(xi) If the imported class II controlled substance was reclaimed in a foreign Party, the name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of any or all foreign reclamation facility(ies) responsible for reclaiming the cited shipment;

(xii) The export license, application for an export license, or official communication acknowledging the export from the appropriate government agency in the country of export and, if recovered in another country, the export license or official communication from the appropriate government agency in that country, and quantity authorized for export in kilograms on the export license, and an English translation of these documents;

(xiii) If the imported used class II controlled substance is intended to be sold as a refrigerant in the United States, the name, address, and email address of the EPA-certified U.S. reclaimer who will bring the material to the standard required under subpart F of this part, if not already reclaimed to those specifications; and

(xiv) A certification of accuracy of the information submitted in the petition.

(4) Review of petition to import used class II controlled substances and transhipments—Importers. Starting on the first working day following receipt by the Administrator of a petition to import a used class II controlled substance, the Administrator will initiate a review of the information submitted under paragraph (c)(3) of this section and take action within 40 working days to issue either an objection-notice or a non-objection notice for the individual shipment to the person who submitted the petition to import the used class II controlled substance.

(i) The Administrator may issue an objection notice to a petition for the following reasons:

(A) If the Administrator determines that the information is insufficient, that is, if the petition lacks or appears to lack any of the information required under paragraph (c)(3) of this section or other information that may be requested during the review of the petition necessary to verify that the controlled substance is used;

(B) If the Administrator determines that any portion of the petition contains false or misleading information, or the Administrator has information from other U.S. or foreign government agencies indicating that the petition contains false or misleading information;

(C) If the transaction appears to be contrary to provisions of the Vienna Convention on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, the Montreal Protocol and Decisions by the Parties, or the non-compliance procedures outlined and instituted by the Implementation Committee of the Montreal Protocol;

(D) If the appropriate government agency in the exporting country has not agreed to issue an export license for the cited individual shipment of used class II controlled substance;

(E) If reclamation capacity is installed or is being installed for that specific class II controlled substance in the country of recovery or country of export and the capacity is funded in full or in part through the Multilateral Fund.

(ii) Within ten (10) working days after receipt of the objection notice, the importer may re-petition the Administrator, only if the Administrator indicated &#x201C;insufficient information&#x201D; as the basis for the objection notice. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after the date on the objection notice, the objection shall become final. Only one re-petition will be accepted for any original petition received by EPA.

(iii) Any information contained in the re-petition which is inconsistent with the original petition must be identified and a description of the reason for the inconsistency must accompany the re-petition.

(iv) In cases where the Administrator does not object to the petition based on the criteria listed in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, the Administrator will issue a non-objection notice.

(v) To pass the approved used class II controlled substances through U.S. Customs, the non-objection notice issued by EPA must accompany the shipment through U.S. Customs.

(vi) If for some reason, following EPA's issuance of a non-objection notice, new information is brought to EPA's attention which shows that the non-objection notice was issued based on false information, then EPA has the right to:

(A) Revoke the non-objection notice;

(B) Pursue all means to ensure that the class II controlled substance is not imported into the U.S.; and

(C) Take appropriate enforcement actions.

(vii) A person receiving the non-objection notice is permitted to import the individual shipment only within one year of the date stamped on the non-objection notice.

(viii) A person receiving a non-objection notice from the Administrator for a petition to import used class II controlled substances must maintain the following records:

(A) A copy of the petition;

(B) The EPA non-objection notice;

(C) The bill of lading for the import; and

(D) The U.S. Customs entry number.

(5) Recordkeeping for transhipments—Importers. Any person who tranships a class II controlled substance must maintain records that indicate:

(i) That the class II controlled substance shipment originated in a foreign country;

(ii) That the class II controlled substance shipment is destined for another foreign country; and

(iii) That the class II controlled substance shipment will not enter interstate commerce within the U.S.

(6) Certification of intent to import for destruction. For each individual shipment of a class II controlled substance imported with the intent to destroy that substance, an importer must submit electronically to the Administrator, at least 30 working days before the shipment is to leave the foreign port of export, the following information:

(i) Name, commodity code, and quantity in kilograms of each controlled substance to be imported;

(ii) Name and address of the importer, the importer ID number, and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;

(iii) Name and address of any intermediary who aggregates controlled substances imported for destruction, and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;

(iv) The U.S. port of entry for the import, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the material. If at the time of submitting the certification of intent to import for destruction the importer does not know the U.S. port of entry, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the material, and the importer receives a non-objection notice for the individual shipment in the petition, the importer is required to notify the Administrator of this information prior to the entry of the individual shipment into the United States;

(v) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the responsible party at the destruction facility;

(vi) The export license, application for an export license, or official communication acknowledging the export from the appropriate government agency in the country of export and, if recovered in another country, the export license or official communication from the appropriate government agency in that country, and quantity authorized for export in kilograms on the export license, and an English translation of these documents; and

(vii) A certification of accuracy of the information submitted in the certification.

(7) Destruction verification. For each individual shipment of a class II controlled substance imported with the intent to destroy that substance, an importer must submit to the Administrator a copy of the destruction verification within 30 days after destruction of the controlled substance(s).

(8) Review of certification of intent to import for destruction. (i) Starting on the first working day following receipt by the Administrator of a certification of intent to import a class II controlled substance for destruction, the Administrator will initiate a review of the information submitted under paragraph (c)(6) of this section and take action within 30 working days to issue either an objection notice or a non-objection notice for the individual shipment to the person who submitted the certification of intent to import the class II controlled substance for destruction.

(ii) The Administrator may issue an objection notice if the petition lacks or appears to lack any of the information required under paragraph (c)(6) of this section or for the reasons listed in paragraphs (c)(4)(i)(B) through (E) of this section.

(iii) In cases where the Administrator does not object to the petition, the Administrator will issue a non-objection notice.

(iv) To pass the approved class II controlled substances through U.S. Customs, the non-objection notice issued by EPA must accompany the shipment through U.S. Customs.

(v) If for some reason, following EPA's issuance of a non-objection notice, new information is brought to EPA's attention which shows that the non-objection notice was issued based on false information, then EPA has the right to:

(A) Revoke the non-objection notice;

(B) Pursue all means to ensure that the class II controlled substance is not imported into the United States; and

(C) Take appropriate enforcement actions.

(9) Timing of import. A person receiving the non-objection notice is permitted to import the individual shipment only within one year of the date stamped on the non-objection notice.

(10) Additional recordkeeping requirements—importers of used, recycled, or reclaimed controlled substances. A person receiving a non-objection notice from the Administrator for a certification of intent to import class II controlled substances for destruction must maintain the following records:

(i) A copy of the certificate of intent to import for destruction;

(ii) The EPA non-objection notice;

(iii) A copy of the export license, export license application, or official communication from the appropriate government agency in the country of export;

(iv) U.S. Customs entry documents for the import that must include one of the commodity codes from appendix K to this subpart;

(v) The date, amount, and type of controlled substance sent for destruction, per shipment;

(vi) An invoice from the destruction facility verifying the shipment was received;

(vii) A copy of the destruction verification from the destruction facility; and

(viii) An English translation of the document in paragraph (c)(10)(iii) of this section.

(11) Recordkeeping requirements-aggregators. A person identified in paragraph (c)(6)(iii) of this section as aggregating a controlled substance prior to destruction must:

(i) Maintain transactional records that include the name and address of the entity from whom they received the controlled substance imported for destruction;

(ii) Maintain transactional records that include the name and address of the entity to whom they sent the controlled substance imported for destruction;

(iii) Maintain records that include the date and quantity of the imported controlled substance received for destruction;

(iv) Maintain records that include the date and quantity of the imported controlled substance sent for destruction; and

(v) If the person is the final aggregator of such a controlled substance before the material is destroyed, maintain a copy of the destruction verification.

(d) Exporters. Persons (&#x201C;exporters&#x201D;) who export class II controlled substances during a control period must comply with the following reporting requirements:

(1) Reporting requirements—exporters. For any exports of class II controlled substances not reported under paragraph (b)(2) of this section (reporting for producers of class II controlled substances), each exporter who exported a class II controlled substance must submit to the Administrator the following information within 30 days after the end of each quarter in which the unreported exports left the United States:

(i) The names and addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the exports;

(ii) The exporter's Employer Identification Number;

(iii) The type and quantity of each class II controlled substance exported, including the quantity of controlled substance that is used, reclaimed, or recycled;

(iv) The date on which, and the port from which, the class II controlled substances were exported from the U.S. or its territories;

(v) The country to which the class II controlled substances were exported;

(vi) The quantity (in kilograms) exported to each Article 5 country;

(vii) The commodity code for the class II controlled substances shipped, which must be one of those listed in appendix K to this subpart;

(viii) For persons reporting transformation or destruction, the invoice or sales agreement containing language similar to the transformation verifications that the purchaser or recipient of imported class II controlled substances intends to transform those substances, or destruction verifications showing that the purchaser or recipient intends to destroy the class II controlled substances (as provided in paragraph (e) of this section).

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Reporting Article 5 allowances—Exporters. In addition to the information required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, any exporter using Article 5 allowances must also provide the following to the Administrator:

(i) The Employer Identification Number of the shipper or their agent; and

(ii) The exporting vessel on which the class II controlled substances were shipped.

(4) Reporting used class II controlled substances—Exporters. Any exporter of used class II controlled substances must indicate on the bill of lading or invoice that the class II controlled substance is used, as defined in § 82.3.

(e) Transformation and destruction. Any person who transforms or destroys class II controlled substances must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:

(1) Recordkeeping—Transformation and destruction. Any person who transforms or destroys class II controlled substances produced or imported by another person must maintain the following:

(i) Copies of the invoices or receipts documenting the sale or transfer of the class II controlled substances to the person;

(ii) Records identifying the producer or importer of the class II controlled substances received by the person;

(iii) Dated records of inventories of class II controlled substances at each plant on the first day of each quarter;

(iv) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of each class II controlled substance transformed or destroyed;

(v) In the case where class II controlled substances were purchased or transferred for transformation purposes, a copy of the person's transformation verification as provided under paragraph (e)(3)of this section.

(vi) Dated records of the names, commercial use, and quantities (in kilograms) of the resulting chemical(s) when the class II controlled substances are transformed; and

(vii) Dated records of shipments to purchasers of the resulting chemical(s) when the class II controlled substances are transformed.

(viii) In the case where class II controlled substances were purchased or transferred for destruction purposes, a copy of the person's destruction verification, as provided under paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(2) Reporting—Transformation and destruction. Any person who transforms or destroys class II controlled substances and who has submitted a transformation verification ((paragraph (e)(3) of this section) or a destruction verification (paragraph (e)(5) of this section) to the producer or importer of the class II controlled substances, must report the following:

(i) The names and quantities (in kilograms) of the class II controlled substances transformed for each control period within 45 days of the end of such control period; and

(ii) The names and quantities (in kilograms) of the class II controlled substances destroyed for each control period within 45 days of the end of such control period.

(3) Reporting—Transformation. Any person who purchases class II controlled substances for purposes of transformation must provide the producer or importer with a transformation verification that the class II controlled substances are to be used in processes that result in their transformation.

(i) The transformation verification shall include the following:

(A) Identity and address of the person intending to transform the class II controlled substances;

(B) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances intended for transformation;

(C) Identity of shipments by purchase order number(s), purchaser account number(s), by location(s), or other means of identification;

(D) Period of time over which the person intends to transform the class II controlled substances; and

(E) Signature of the verifying person.

(ii) [Reserved]

(4) Reporting—Destruction. Any person who destroys class II controlled substances shall provide EPA with a one-time report containing the following information:

(i) The destruction unit's destruction efficiency;

(ii) The methods used to record the volume destroyed;

(iii) The methods used to determine destruction efficiency;

(iv) The name of other relevant federal or state regulations that may apply to the destruction process;

(v) Any changes to the information in paragraphs (e)(4)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section must be reflected in a revision to be submitted to EPA within 60 days of the change(s).

(5) Reporting—Destruction. Any person who purchases or receives and subsequently destroys class II controlled substances that were originally produced without expending allowances shall provide the producer or importer from whom it purchased or received the class II controlled substances with a verification that the class II controlled substances will be used in processes that result in their destruction.

(i) The destruction verification shall include the following:

(A) Identity and address of the person intending to destroy class II controlled substances;

(B) Indication of whether those class II controlled substances will be completely destroyed, as defined in § 82.3, or less than completely destroyed, in which case the destruction efficiency at which such substances will be destroyed must be included;

(C) Period of time over which the person intends to destroy class II controlled substances; and

(D) Signature of the verifying person.

(ii) [Reserved]

(f) Heels-Recordkeeping and reporting. Any person who brings into the U.S. a rail car, tank truck, or ISO tank containing a heel, as defined in § 82.3, of class II controlled substances, must take the following actions:

(1) Indicate on the bill of lading or invoice that the class II controlled substance in the container is a heel.

(2) Report within 30 days of the end of the control period the quantity (in kilograms) brought into the U.S. and certify:

(i) That the residual quantity (in kilograms) in each shipment is no more than 10 percent of the volume of the container;

(ii) That the residual quantity (in kilograms) in each shipment will either:

(A) Remain in the container and be included in a future shipment;

(B) Be recovered and transformed;

(C) Be recovered and destroyed; or

(D) Be recovered for a non-emissive use.

(3) Report on the final disposition of each shipment within 30 days of the end of the control period.

(g) Process agents. Any entity that uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent must comply, in addition to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 82.25, with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements for each facility that uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent:

(1) Reporting—one-time report. By February 7, 2025, or within 120 days of the date that an entity first uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent, whichever is later, any entity that uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent must submit to the Administrator a report containing the following information for each use of a class II controlled substance as a process agent:

(i) The name and address of each facility and plant, and each responsible person's name, email address, and phone number;

(ii) The name, purpose, and final product manufactured of each process agent application that uses a class II controlled substance;

(iii) The start-up date of each facility and the start-up date of each plant that uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent;

(iv) For each facility, the names and amounts of each product and byproduct manufactured in the process agent application during the previous control period, including amounts destroyed or used as a feedstock;

(v) For each facility, the total air, fugitive air, and stack point air emissions of class II controlled substances used as a process agent during the previous control period;

(vi) For each facility, a description of technologies currently being used and actions taken or currently under evaluation to minimize use or emissions of class II controlled substances used as process agents (including estimated emissions reductions associated with each); and

(vii) For each facility, a description that includes details of the percentages of class II controlled substances used as a process agent and:

(A) Retained within the process agent application;

(B) Consumed in the process agent application;

(C) Recovered after the process agent application;

(D) Emitted; and

(E) Entrained in the final product.

(2) Annual reports. Any entity that uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent must provide by February 14 of each year an annual report for the previous control period containing the following information for each use of the class II controlled substance as a process agent:

(i) For each facility, contact information including email address and phone number for a primary and alternate contact person;

(ii) For each facility, the name and amount of each class II controlled substance initially introduced into the process agent application for use as a process agent, specified independently for paragraphs (g)(2)(ii)(A) through (G) of this section by whether the class II controlled substance was:

(A) Obtained as virgin;

(B) Obtained as used;

(C) Produced by the entity;

(D) Purchased from a U.S. producer;

(E) Imported;

(F) Reclaimed by the entity from a different use; and

(G) Reclaimed by another entity;

(iii) For each facility, the name and amount of each class II controlled substance used as a process agent and reused or recycled for use by the entity for continued use in the same process agent application at the same facility;

(iv) For each facility, the name and amount of each class II controlled substance used as a process agent that was ultimately:

(A) Transformed;

(B) Reused or recycled for use in a different process agent application; or

(C) Destroyed by approved destruction technologies;

(v) For each facility, the total air, fugitive air, and stack point air emissions of each class II controlled substance used as a process agent;

(vi) For each facility, the names and amounts of each product and byproduct manufactured in the process agent application during the previous control period, including amounts destroyed or used as a feedstock;

(vii) For each facility, a description of emission reduction actions for class II controlled substances used as a process agent taken since the last one-time or annual report, planned, or currently under evaluation; and

(viii) For each entity, any process agent application changes anticipated to result in increases for the next annual report, as compared to the previous control period and the average of the three previous control periods, of the following magnitude must be specified in a report submitted to EPA at least 180 days prior to implementing the change:

(A) Greater than 20 percent of the amount of class II controlled substance initially introduced for use as a process agent; or

(B) At least one metric ton and 20 percent of the amount emitted during use as a process agent.

(3) Recordkeeping. Every entity who uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent during a control period must maintain the following records, as applicable:

(i) Dated records of the quantity of each class II controlled substance initially introduced at each facility into the process application for use as a process agent;

(ii) Dated records of the quantity of each class II controlled substance produced at each facility for use as a process agent;

(iii) Records identifying the producer or importer of the class II controlled substance received at each facility for use as a process agent by the entity;

(iv) For each facility, copies of the invoices or receipts documenting the sale or other transfer of ownership of each class II controlled substance for use as a process agent to the entity;

(v) Dated records identifying the quantity of each product manufactured within each facility by using a class II controlled substance as a process agent;

(vi) For each facility, records of the date and the estimated quantity of any spill or release of each class II controlled substance used as a process agent that equals or exceeds 100 pounds;

(vii) For each facility, a description of the methodology used to measure and calculate emissions, and dated records of equipment parameters, measured data, supporting calculations, and other rationale used to validate reported emission quantities;

(viii) For each facility, dated records of the quantity of each class II controlled substance used as a process agent which is subsequently transformed or destroyed;

(ix) In the case where class II controlled substances used as a process agent were ultimately transformed by an entity other than the entity which last used the class II controlled substances as a process agent, a copy of the entity's transformation verification as provided under paragraph (e)(3) of this section; and

(x) In the case where class II controlled substances used as a process agent were ultimately destroyed by an entity other than the entity which last used the class II controlled substances as a process agent, a copy of the entity's destruction verification, as provided under paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(4) Request for extension. Any entity that uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent may request an extension to comply with paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(i) This request must include the following information:

(A) Name of the facility submitting the request, contact information for a person at the facility, and the address of the facility;

(B) An explanation of the reasons that an extension is necessary and the timeline that would be practicable; and

(C) Supporting documentation of the circumstances.

(ii) The Administrator will review the request and, within five working days of receiving a complete request, provide notification of whether the request is granted and when the report is due.

(5) Notification that use has ceased. Reports are no longer required for process agent use starting in the year after an entity notifies the Administrator that they have permanently ceased use of all class II controlled substances as a process agent, but the entity must continue to comply with all applicable recordkeeping requirements.
[68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 41172, July 20, 2006; 81 FR 6768, Feb. 9, 2016; 85 FR 15298, Mar. 17, 2020; 89 FR 82432, Oct. 10, 2024]

### § 82.25 Emissions of controlled substances from industrial sources.

(a) Source applicability. The requirements specified in this section apply to every entity which engages in any of the following activities:

(1) Use of a controlled substance as a process agent.

(2) [Reserved]

(b) Emissions of controlled substances to report. Every entity that engages in any activity listed in paragraph (a) of this section must report, for each applicable facility, emissions of the controlled substances in paragraph (b)(1) of this section from the processes listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(1) Emissions of controlled substances. For purposes of reporting emissions under this section, the term &#x201C;controlled substance&#x201D; applies to the following controlled substances:

(i) Each controlled substance used as a process agent.

(ii) [Reserved]

(2) Processes. For purposes of this section, the term &#x201C;process&#x201D; applies to the following activities:

(i) Each activity listed in paragraph (a) of this section;

(ii) Each separation process for the reuse or recycling of the controlled substance;

(iii) Each transformation process of the controlled substance, where the controlled substance is produced at the facility and used in processes resulting in its transformation at the same facility;

(iv) Each transformation process of the controlled substance at the facility, where one or more of the controlled substances transformed at the facility is produced at another facility; and

(v) Each destruction process of the controlled substance.

(c) Calculating emissions for controlled substances. For every activity listed in paragraph (a) of this section, each entity must calculate emissions of the controlled substances from each process using the emission factor, emission calculation factor, or mass balance method specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section, as appropriate. The mass balance method may only be used for batch operations without on-site production or transformation of controlled substances. For destruction processes that destroy controlled substances, the entity must calculate emissions using the procedures in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(1) Emission factor and emission calculation factor methods. To use the method in this paragraph (c)(1) for batch processes, each entity must use the methods in either paragraph (c)(1)(iii) (Emission Factor approach) or (iv) (Emission Calculation Factor approach) of this section. To use the method in this paragraph (c)(1) for continuous processes, the entity must first make a preliminary estimate of the emissions from each individual continuous process vent under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. If the entity's continuous process operates under different conditions as part of normal operations, that entity must also define the different operating scenarios and make a preliminary estimate of the emissions from the vent for each operating scenario. Then, compare the preliminary estimate for each continuous process vent (summed across operating scenarios) to the criteria in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section to determine whether the process vent meets the criteria for using the emission factor method described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section or whether the process vent meets the criteria for using the emission calculation factor method described in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. For continuous process vents that meet the criteria for using the emission factor method described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section and that have more than one operating scenario, compare the preliminary estimate for each operating scenario to the criteria in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(B) of this section to determine whether an emission factor must be developed for that operating scenario.

(i) Preliminary estimate of emissions by process vent. Each entity must estimate the annual emissions of the controlled substance for each process vent within each operating scenario of a continuous process using the approaches specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section, accounting for any destruction as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section. The entity must determine emissions of controlled substances by process vent by using measurements, by using calculations based on chemical engineering principles and chemical property data, or by conducting an engineering assessment. The entity may use previously conducted measurements, calculations, or assessments if they represent current process operating conditions or process operating conditions that would result in higher controlled substance emissions than the current operating conditions and if they were performed in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, as applicable. The entity must document all data, assumptions, and procedures used in the calculations or engineering assessment and keep a record of the emissions determination as required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(A) Engineering calculations. For process vent emission calculations, each entity may use any of paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.

(1) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Emission Inventory Improvement Program, Volume II: Chapter 16, Methods for Estimating Air Emissions from Chemical Manufacturing Facilities, August 2007, Final (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).

(2) Each entity may determine the controlled substance emissions from any process vent within the process using the procedures specified in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i) and (d)(3)(i)(B) of this chapter, except as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section. For the purposes of this section, use of the term &#x201C;HAP&#x201D; in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i) and (d)(3)(i)(B) of this chapter means &#x201C;controlled substance.&#x201D;

(i) To calculate emissions caused by the heating of a vessel without a process condenser to a temperature lower than the boiling point, each entity must use the procedures in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i)(C)(3) of this chapter.

(ii) To calculate emissions from depressurization of a vessel without a process condenser, each entity must use the procedures in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i)(D)(10) of this chapter.

(iii) To calculate emissions from vacuum systems, the terms used in equation 33 to § 63.1257(d)(2)(i)(E) of this chapter are defined as follows. Psystem means the absolute pressure of the receiving vessel. P
i means the partial pressure of the controlled substance determined at the exit temperature and exit pressure conditions of the condenser or at the conditions of the dedicated receiver. Pj means the partial pressure of condensables (including controlled substances) determined at the exit temperature and exit pressure conditions of the condenser or at the conditions of the dedicated receiver. MWcontrolled substance means the molecular weight of the controlled substance determined at the exit temperature and exit pressure conditions of the condenser or at the conditions of the dedicated receiver.

(iv) To calculate emissions when a vessel is equipped with a process condenser or a control condenser, each entity must use the procedures in § 63.1257(d)(3)(i)(B) of this chapter, except as follows. Each entity must determine the flow rate of gas (or volume of gas), partial pressures of condensables, temperature (T), and controlled substance molecular weight (MWcontrolled substance) at the exit temperature and exit pressure conditions of the condenser or at the conditions of the dedicated receiver. Each entity must assume that all of the components contained in the condenser exit vent stream are in equilibrium with the same components in the exit condensate stream (except for noncondensables). Each entity must perform a material balance for each component, if the condensate receiver composition is not known. For the emissions from purging, the term for time, t, must be used in equation 12 to § 63.1257(d)(2)(i)(B) of this chapter. Emissions from empty vessel purging must be calculated using equation 36 to § 63.1257(d)(2)(i)(H) of this chapter and the exit temperature and exit pressure conditions of the condenser or the conditions of the dedicated receiver.

(3) Commercial software products that follow chemical engineering principles (e.g., including the calculation methodologies in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A)(1) and (2) of this section).

(B) Engineering assessments. For process vent emissions determinations, each entity may conduct an engineering assessment to calculate uncontrolled emissions. An engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the following:

(1) Previous test results, provided the tests are representative of current operating practices of the process.

(2) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process operating conditions.

(3) Maximum flow rate, controlled substance emission rate, concentration, or other relevant parameters specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the process vent.

(4) Design analysis based on chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties.

(C) Impact of destruction for the preliminary estimate. If the process vent is vented to a destruction unit, each entity may reflect the impact of the destruction unit on emissions. In the emissions estimate, account for the following:

(1) The demonstrated destruction efficiencies of the device for the controlled substance in the vent stream for periods when the destruction device is in use.

(2) Any periods when the process vent is not vented to the destruction unit.

(D) Use of typical recent values. In the calculations in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section, the values used for the expected process activity and for the expected fraction of that activity, whose emissions will be vented to the properly functioning destruction unit, must be based on either typical recent values for the process or values that overestimate emissions from the process, unless there is a compelling reason to adopt a different value (e.g., installation of a destruction unit for a previously uncontrolled process). If there is such a reason, it must be documented in the monitoring plan.

(ii) Method selection for continuous process vents. (A) Based on the calculations under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, as well as any subsequent measurements and calculations under this section, rank the process vents based on controlled substance emissions, upstream of any destruction unit, summed across all operating scenarios, from largest to smallest estimated annual emissions of controlled substances. The continuous process vents that comprise the top quartile of estimated annual emissions of controlled substances must use the method in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section (Emission Factor approach). The process vent emissions will be based on the past 3 years for the ranking analysis.

(B) The remaining continuous process vents that comprise the bottom three quartiles of estimated annual emissions of controlled substances may use either the emission factor method specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section (Emission Factor approach) or a method specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section (Emission Calculation Factor approach).

(1) Each entity must conduct emission testing for process-vent-specific emission factor development upstream of the destruction unit.

(2) The emission testing for process-vent-specific emission factor development may be conducted on the outlet side of a wet scrubber in place for acid gas reduction, if there is no appreciable reduction in the controlled substance by the wet scrubber.

(iii) Process-vent-specific emission factor method. For each process vent, each entity must conduct an emission test according to the procedures in paragraph (d) of this section and measure the process activity, such as the feed rate, production rate, or other process activity rate, during the test as described in this paragraph (c)(1)(iii). All emissions test data and procedures used in developing emission factors must be documented according to paragraph (f) of this section. If more than one operating scenario applies to the process that contains the subject process vent, each entity must use the method in either paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section.

(A) Conduct a separate emissions test for operation under each operating scenario.

(B) Conduct an emissions test for the operating scenario that is expected to have the largest emissions of controlled substances (considering both activity levels and emission calculation factors) on an annual basis. Also conduct an emissions test for each additional operating scenario for which the emission calculation factor differs by 15 percent or more from the emission calculation factor of the operating scenario that is expected to have the largest emissions(or of another operating scenario for which emission testing is performed), unless the difference between the operating scenarios is solely due to the application of a destruction unit to emissions under one of the operating scenarios. For any other operating scenarios, adjust the process-vent specific emission factor developed for the operating scenario that is expected to have the largest emissions (or for another operating scenario for which emission testing is performed) using the approach in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(G) of this section.

(C) Each entity must measure the process activity, such as the process feed rate, process production rate, or other process activity rate, as applicable, during the emissions test and calculate the rate for the test period, in kg (or another appropriate metric) per hour.

(D) For continuous processes, each entity must calculate the hourly emission rate of each controlled substance using equation 1 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(D) and determine the hourly emission rate of each controlled substance per process vent (and per operating scenario, as applicable) for the test run.
Equation 1 to Paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(D)

Where:

EContPV = Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, during the emission test during test run r (kg/hr).

CPV = Concentration of controlled substance p during test run r of the emission test (ppmv).

MW = Molecular weight of controlled substance p (g/g-mole).

QPV = Flow rate of the process vent stream during test run r of the emission test (m3/min).

SV = Standard molar volume of gas (0.0240 m
3/g-mole at 68 &#xB0;F and 1 atm).

1/10
3 = Conversion factor (1 kilogram/1,000 grams).

60/1 = Conversion factor (60 minutes/1 hour).

(E) Each entity must calculate a site-specific, process-vent-specific emission factor for each controlled substance for each process vent and each operating scenario, in kg of controlled substance per process activity rate (e.g., kg of feed or production), as applicable, using equation 2 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(E). For continuous processes, divide the hourly controlled substance emission rate during the test by the hourly process activity rate during the test runs.
Equation 2 to Paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(E)

Where:

EFPV = Emission factor for controlled substance p emitted from process vent v during process i, operating scenario j (e.g., kg emitted/kg activity).

EPV = Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, during the emission test during test run r, for either continuous or batch (kg emitted/hr for continuous, kg emitted/batch for batch).

ActivityEmissionTest = Process feed, process production, or other process activity rate for process i, operating scenario j, during the emission test during test run r (e.g., kg product/hr).

r = Number of test runs performed during the emission test.

(F) If emissions testing is conducted upstream of the destruction unit, apply the destruction efficiencies of the device that have been demonstrated for the controlled substance in the vent stream to the controlled substance emissions for the process vent (and operating scenario, as applicable), using equation 3 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(F). Each entity may apply the destruction efficiency only to the portion of the process activity during which emissions are vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (i.e., controlled).
Equation 3 to Paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(F)

EPV = EFPV-U * (Activityu + Activityc * (1&#x2212;DE))

Where:

EPV = Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, for the year, considering destruction efficiency (kg).

EFPV-U = Emission factor (uncontrolled) for controlled substance p emitted from process vent v during process i, operating scenario j (kg emitted/kg product).

ActivityU = Total process feed, process production, or other process activity for process i, operating scenario j, during the year for which the process vent is not vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (e.g., kg product).

ActivityC = Total process feed, process production, or other process activity for process i, operating scenario j, during the year for which the process vent is vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (e.g., kg product).

DE = Demonstrated destruction efficiency of the destruction unit (weight fraction).

(G) For process vents from processes with multiple operating scenarios, use equation 4 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(G) to develop an adjusted process-vent-specific emission factor for each operating scenario whose emission calculation factor differs by less than 15 percent from the emission calculation factor of the operating scenario that is expected to have the largest emissions (or of another operating scenario for which emission testing is performed).
Equation 4 to Paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(G)

Where:

EFPVadj = Adjusted process-vent-specific emission factor for an untested operating scenario.

ECFUT = Emission calculation factor for the untested operating scenario developed under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

ECFT = Emission calculation for the tested operating scenario developed under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

EFPV = Process vent specific emission factor for the tested operating scenario.

(H) Sum the emissions of each controlled substance from all process vents in each operating scenario and all operating scenarios in the process for the year to estimate the total process vent emissions of each controlled substance from the process, using equation 5 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(H).
Equation 5 to Paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(H)

Where:

EPpi = Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vents for process i for the year (kg).

EPV = Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, for the year, considering destruction efficiency (kg).

v = Number of process vents in process i, operating scenario j.

o = Number of operating scenarios for process i.

(iv) Process-vent-specific emission calculation factor method. For each process vent within an operating scenario, determine controlled substances emissions by calculations and determine the process activity rate, such as the feed rate, production rate, or other process activity rate, associated with the emission rate.

(A) Each entity must calculate uncontrolled emissions of controlled substances by individual process vent, EPV, by using measurements, by using calculations based on chemical engineering principles and chemical property data, or by conducting an engineering assessment. Use the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section, except paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B)(3) of this section. The procedures in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section may be applied either to batch process vents or to continuous process vents. The uncontrolled emissions must be based on a typical batch or production rate under a defined operating scenario. The process activity rate associated with the uncontrolled emissions must be determined. The methods, data, and assumptions used to estimate emissions for each operating scenario must be selected to yield a best estimate (expected value) of emissions rather than an over- or underestimate of emissions for that operating scenario. All data, assumptions, and procedures used in the calculations or engineering assessment must be documented according to paragraph (f) of this section.

(B) Each entity must calculate a site-specific, process-vent-specific emission calculation factor for each process vent each operating scenario, and each controlled substance, in kg of controlled substance per activity rate (e.g., kg of feed or production) as applicable, using equation 6 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(B).
Equation 6 to Paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(B)

Where:

ECFPV = Emission calculation factor for controlled substance p emitted from process vent v during process i, operating scenario j (e.g., kg emitted/kg product).

EPV = Average mass of controlled substance p emitted, based on calculations, from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, during the period or batch for which emissions were calculated, for either continuous or batch (kg emitted/hr for continuous, kg emitted/batch for batch).

Activity Representative = Process feed, process production, or other process activity rate corresponding to average mass of emissions based on calculations (e.g., kg product/hr for continuous, kg product/batch for batch).

(C) Each entity must calculate emissions of each controlled substance for the process vent (and for each operating scenario, as applicable) for the year by multiplying the process-vent-specific emission calculation factor by the total process activity, as applicable, for the year, using equation 7 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C).
Equation 7 to Paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C)

EPV = ECFPV * Activity

Where:

EPV = Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, for the year (kg).

ECFPV = Emission calculation factor for controlled substance p emitted from process vent v during process i, operating scenario j (kg emitted/activity) (e.g., kg emitted/kg product).

Activity = Process feed, process production, or other process activity for process i, operating scenario j, during the year.

(D) If the process vent is vented to a destruction unit, apply the demonstrated destruction efficiency of the device to the controlled substance emissions for the process vent (and operating scenario, as applicable), using equation 8 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(D). Apply the destruction efficiency only to the portion of the process activity that is vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (i.e., controlled).
Equation 8 to Paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(D)

EPV = ECFPV * (Activityu + Activityc * (1&#x2212;DE))

Where:

EPV = Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, for the year considering destruction efficiency (kg).

ECFPV = Emission calculation factor for controlled substance p emitted from process vent v during process i, operating scenario j (e.g., kg emitted/kg product).

ActivityU = Total process feed, process production, or other process activity for process i, operating scenario j, during the year for which the process vent is not vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (e.g., kg product).

ActivityC = Total process feed, process production, or other process activity for process i, operating scenario j, during the year for which the process vent is vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (e.g., kg product).

DE = Demonstrated destruction efficiency of the destruction unit (weight fraction).

(E) Sum the emissions of each controlled substance from all process vents in each operating scenario and all operating scenarios in the process for the year to estimate the total process vent emissions of each controlled substance from the process, using equation 9 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(E).
Equation 9 to Paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(E)

Where:

EPpi = Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vents for process i for the year (kg).

EPV = Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, for the year, considering destruction efficiency (kg).

v = Number of process vents in process i, operating scenario j.

o = Number of operating scenarios in process i.

(2) Calculate emissions for equipment leaks (EL). If activity is covered under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, each entity must calculate the emissions from pieces of equipment associated with processes covered under this section. If conducting monitoring of equipment in controlled substance service, monitoring must be conducted for those in light liquid and in gas and vapor service. If conducting monitoring of equipment in controlled substance service, the entity may exclude from monitoring each piece of equipment that is difficult-to-monitor, that is unsafe-to-monitor, that is insulated, or that is in heavy liquid service; the entity may exclude from monitoring each pump with dual mechanical seals, agitator with dual mechanical seals, pump with no external shaft, agitator with no external shaft; the entity may exclude from monitoring each pressure relief device in gas and vapor service with upstream rupture disk, each sampling connection system with closed-loop or closed-purge systems, and any pieces of equipment where leaks are routed through a closed vent system to a destruction unit. The entity must estimate emissions using another approach for those pieces of equipment excluded from monitoring. Equipment that is in controlled substance service for less than 300 hr/yr, equipment that is in vacuum service, pressure relief devices that are in light liquid service, and instrumentation systems are exempted from the requirements in this paragraph (c)(2).

(i) The emissions from equipment leaks must be calculated using any of the procedures in paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section.

(A) Use of Average Emission Factor Approach in EPA protocol for equipment leak emission estimates. The emissions from equipment leaks may be calculated using the default Average Emission Factor Approach in EPA-453/R-95-017 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).

(B) Use of Other Approaches in EPA protocol for equipment leak emission estimates in conjunction with EPA Method 21. The emissions from equipment leaks may be calculated using one of the following methods in EPA-453/R-95-017 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27): The Screening Ranges Approach; the EPA Correlation Approach; or the Unit-Specific Correlation Approach. If it is determined that EPA Method 21 in appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 is appropriate for monitoring a controlled substance, and if the instrument is calibrated with a compound different from one or more of the controlled substances or surrogates to be measured, each entity must develop response factors for each controlled substance or for each surrogate to be measured using EPA Method 21. For each controlled substance or surrogate measured, the response factor must be less than 10. The response factor is the ratio of the known concentration of a controlled substance or surrogate to the observed meter reading when measured using an instrument calibrated with the reference compound.

(C) Use of Other Approaches in EPA protocol for equipment leak emission estimates in conjunction with site-specific leak monitoring methods. The emissions from equipment leaks may be calculated using one of the following methods in EPA-453/R-95-017 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27): The Screening Ranges Approach; the EPA Correlation Approach; or the Unit-Specific Correlation Approach. Each entity may develop a site-specific leak monitoring method appropriate for monitoring controlled substances or surrogates to use along with these three approaches. The site-specific leak monitoring method must meet the requirements in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section.

(D) Use of site-specific leak monitoring methods. The emissions from equipment leaks may be calculated using a site-specific leak monitoring method. The site-specific leak monitoring method must meet the requirements in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section.

(ii) Each entity must collect information on the number of each type of equipment, the service of each piece of equipment (gas, light liquid, heavy liquid), the concentration of each controlled substance in the stream, and the time period each piece of equipment was in service (e.g., hours per year). Depending on which approach followed, the entity may be required to collect information for equipment on the associated screening data concentrations for greater than or equal to 10,000 ppmv and associated screening data concentrations for less than 10,000 ppmv; associated actual screening data concentrations; or associated screening data and leak rate data (i.e., bagging) used to develop a unit-specific correlation.

(iii) Calculate and sum the emissions of each controlled substance in kilograms per year for equipment pieces for each process, EELp, annually. Each entity must include and estimate emissions for types of equipment that are excluded from monitoring, including difficult-to-monitor, unsafe-to-monitor and insulated pieces of equipment, pieces of equipment in heavy liquid service, pumps with dual mechanical seals, agitators with dual mechanical seals, pumps with no external shaft, agitators with no external shaft, pressure relief devices in gas and vapor service with upstream rupture disk, sampling connection systems with closed-loop or closed purge systems, and pieces of equipment where leaks are routed through a closed vent system to a destruction unit.

(3) Calculate total controlled substance emissions for each process and for production or transformation processes at the facility. (i) Estimate annually the total mass of each controlled substance emitted from each process, including emissions from process vents in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section, as appropriate, and from equipment leaks in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, using equation 10 to this paragraph (c)(3)(i).
Equation 10 to Paragraph (c)(3)(i)

Ei = EPpi + EELpi

Where:

Ei = Total mass of each controlled substance p emitted from process i, annual basis (kg/year).

EPpi = Mass of controlled substance p emitted from all process vents and all operating scenarios in process i, annually (kg/year, calculated in equation 5 or 9 to this section, as appropriate).

EELpi = Mass of controlled substance p emitted from equipment leaks for pieces of equipment for process i, annually (kg/year, calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section).

(ii) Estimate annually the total mass of each controlled substance emitted at the facility from each applicable process listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section using equation 11 to this paragraph (c)(3)(ii). Develop separate totals for each applicable process listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Equation 11 to Paragraph (c)(3)(ii)

Where:

E = Total mass of each controlled substance p emitted from all processes listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, as appropriate (kilograms).

Ei = Total mass of each controlled substance p emitted from each process listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, annual basis (kg/year, calculated in equation 10 to paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section).

z = Total number of processes listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, as appropriate.

(4) Mass balance method. Before using the mass balance approach to estimate your controlled substance emissions from a process, you must ensure that the process and the equipment and methods used to measure the process meet either the error limits described in this paragraph (c)(4) and calculated under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section or the requirements specified in paragraph (d)(4)(viii) of this section. If you choose to calculate the error limits, you must estimate the absolute and relative errors associated with using the mass balance approach on that process using equations 12 through 15 to this section in conjunction with equations 16 through 21 to this section. You may use the mass-balance approach to estimate emissions from the process if this calculation results in an absolute error of less than or equal to one metric ton of controlled substance per year or a relative error of less than or equal to 10 percent of the estimated controlled substance emissions. If you do not meet either of the error limits or the requirements of paragraph (d)(4)(viii) of this section, you must use the emission factor approach detailed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section to estimate emissions from the process.

(i) To perform the calculation, you must first calculate the absolute and relative errors associated with the quantities calculated using either equations 18 through 21 to this section or equation 28 to paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section. Alternatively, you may estimate these errors based on the variability of previous process measurements (e.g., the variability of measurements of stream concentrations), provided these measurements are representative of the current process and current measurement devices and techniques. Once errors have been calculated for the quantities in these equations, those errors must be used to calculate the errors in equations 16 and 17 to this section. You may omit the errors associated with equations 22 through 24 to this section.

(A) Where the measured quantity is a mass, the error in the mass must be equated to the accuracy or precision (whichever is larger) of the flowmeter, scale, or combination of volumetric and density measurements at the flow rate or mass measured.

(B) Where the measured quantity is a concentration of a stream component, the error of the concentration must be equated to the accuracy or precision (whichever is larger) with which you estimate the mean concentration of that stream component, accounting for the variability of the process, the frequency of the measurements, and the accuracy or precision (whichever is larger) of the analytical technique used to measure the concentration at the concentration measured. If the variability of process measurements is used to estimate the error, this variability shall be assumed to account both for the variability of the process and the precision of the analytical technique. Use standard statistical techniques such as the student's t distribution to estimate the error of the mean of the concentration measurements as a function of process variability and frequency of measurement.

(C) Equation 12 to this paragraph (c)(4)(i)(C) provides the general formula for calculating the absolute errors of sums and differences where the sum, S, is the summation of variables measured, a, b, c, etc. (e.g., S = a + b + c).
Equation 12 to Paragraph (c)(4)(i)(C)

eSA = [(a * ea)
2 + (b * eb)
2 + (c * ec)
2]
1/2

Where:

eSA = Absolute error of the sum, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.

ea = Relative error of a, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.

eb = Relative error of b, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.

ec = Relative error of c, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.

(D) Equation 13 to this paragraph (c)(4)(i)(D) provides the general formula for calculating the relative errors of sums and differences.
Equation 13 to Paragraph (c)(4)(i)(D)

Where:

eSR = Relative error of the sum, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.

eSA = Absolute error of the sum, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.

a+b+c = Sum of the variables measured.

(E) Equation 14 to this paragraph (c)(4)(i)(E) provides the general formula for calculating the absolute errors of products (e.g., flow rates of controlled substances calculated as the product of the flow rate of the stream and the concentration of the controlled substance in the stream), where the product, P, is the result of multiplying the variables measured, a, b, c, etc. (e.g., P = a*b*c).
Equation 14 to Paragraph (c)(4)(i)(E)

ePA = (a * b * c)(e
2a + e
2b + e
2c)
1/2

Where:

ePA = Absolute error of the product, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.

ea = Relative error of a, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.

eb = Relative error of b, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.

ec = Relative error of c, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.

(F) Equation 15 to this paragraph (c)(4)(i)(F) provides the general formula for calculating the relative errors of products.
Equation 15 to Paragraph (c)(4)(i)(F)

Where:

ePR = Relative error of the product, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.

ePA = Absolute error of the product, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.

a*b*c = Product of the variables measured.

(G) Calculate the absolute error of the controlled substance emissions estimate by performing a preliminary estimate of the annual controlled substance emissions of the process using the method in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(H) of this section. Multiply this result by the relative error calculated for the mass of halogen emitted from the process in equation 15 to paragraph (c)(4)(i)(F) of this section.

(H) To estimate the annual controlled substance emissions of the process for use in the error estimate, apply the methods set forth in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii) through (vii) and (ix) through (xvi) of this section to representative process measurements. If these process measurements represent less than one year of typical process activity, adjust the estimated emissions to account for one year of typical process activity. To estimate the terms FERd, FEP, and FEBk for use in the error estimate for equations 22, 23, and 24 to this section, you must either use emission testing, monitoring of emitted streams, and/or engineering calculations or assessments.

(ii) The total mass of each controlled substance emitted annually from each controlled substance process must be estimated by using equation 16 to this paragraph (c)(4)(ii).
Equation 16 to Paragraph (c)(4)(ii)

Where:

EContp = Total mass of each controlled substance p emitted annually from process i (metric tons).

ERp-FContp = Total mass of controlled substance reactant p emitted from production process i over the period t (metric tons, calculated in equation 22 to paragraph (c)(4)(ix) of this section).

EPp-FContp= Total mass of the controlled substance product p emitted from production process i over the period t (metric tons, calculated in equation 23 to paragraph (c)(4)(x) of this section).

EBp-FContp = Total mass of controlled substance byproduct p emitted from production process i over the period t (metric tons, calculated in equation 24 to paragraph (c)(4)(xi) of this section).

n = Number of concentration and flow measurement periods for the year.

(iii) The total mass of halogen emitted from process i over the period t must be estimated at least monthly by calculating the difference between the total mass of halogen in the reactant(s) (or inputs, for processes that do not involve a chemical reaction) and the total mass of halogen in the product (or outputs, for processes that do not involve a chemical reaction), accounting for the total mass of halogen in any destroyed or recaptured streams that contain reactants, products, or byproducts (or inputs or outputs). This calculation must be performed using equation 17 to this paragraph (c)(4)(iii). An element other than a halogen may be used in the mass-balance equation, provided the element occurs in all of the controlled substances fed into or generated by the process. In this case, the mass fractions of the element in the reactants, products, and byproducts must be calculated as appropriate for that element.
Equation 17 to Paragraph (c)(4)(iii)

Where:

EH = Total mass of halogen emitted from process i over the period t (metric tons).

Rd = Total mass of the halogen-containing reactant d that is fed into process i over the period t (metric tons).

P = Total mass of the halogen-containing product produced by process i over the period t (metric tons).

MFHRd = Mass fraction of halogen in reactant d, calculated in equation 25 to paragraph (c)(4)(xii) of this section.

MFHP = Mass fraction of halogen in the product, calculated in equation 26 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiii) of this section.

FD = Total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams from process i containing halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts over the period t, calculated in equation 18 to paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section.

v = Number of halogen-containing reactants fed into process i.

(iv) The mass of total halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams containing halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts must be estimated at least monthly using equation 18 to this paragraph (c)(4)(iv) unless you use the alternative approach provided in paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section.
Equation 18 to Paragraph (c)(4)(iv)

Where:

FD = Total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams from process i containing halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts over the period t.

Pj = Mass of the halogen-containing product removed from process i in stream j and destroyed over the period t (calculated in equation 19 or 20 to this section).

Bkj = Mass of halogen-containing byproduct k removed from process i in stream j and destroyed over the period t (calculated in equation 19 or 20 to this section).

Bkl = Mass of halogen-containing byproduct k removed from process i in stream l and recaptured over the period t.

Rdj = Mass of halogen-containing reactant d removed from process i in stream j and destroyed over the period t (calculated in equation 19 or 20 to this section).

MFHRd = Mass fraction of halogen in reactant d, calculated in equation 25 to paragraph (c)(4)(xii) of this section.

MFHP = Mass fraction of halogen in the product, calculated in equation 26 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiii) of this section.

MFHBk = Mass fraction of halogen in byproduct k, calculated in equation 27 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiv) of this section.

q = Number of streams destroyed in process i.

x = Number of streams recaptured in process i.

u = Number of halogen-containing byproducts generated in process i.

v = Number of halogen-containing reactants fed into process i.

(v) The mass of each controlled substance removed from process i in stream j and destroyed over the period t (i.e., Pj, Bkj, or Rdj, as applicable) must be estimated by applying the destruction efficiency of the device that has been demonstrated for the controlled substance p to controlled substance f using equation 19 to this paragraph (c)(4)(v).
Equation 19 to Paragraph (c)(4)(v)

MFcontpj = DEContp * Ccontrpj * Sj

Where:

MFContpj = Mass of controlled substance p removed from process i in stream j and destroyed over the period t. (This may be Pj, Bkj, or Rdj, as applicable.)

DEContp = Destruction efficiency of the device that has been demonstrated for controlled substance p in stream j (fraction).

CContpj = Concentration (mass fraction) of controlled substance p in stream j removed from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t. If this concentration is only a trace concentration, cContrpj is equal to zero.

Sj = Mass removed in stream j from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t (metric tons).

(vi) The mass of each halogen-containing compound that is not a controlled substance and that is removed from process i in stream j and destroyed over the period t (i.e., P>j, B>kj, or R>dj, as applicable) must be estimated using equation 20 to this paragraph (c)(4)(vi).
Equation 20 to Paragraph (c)(4)(vi)

Mhcgj = CHCgj * Sj

Where:

MHCgj = Mass of non-controlled substance halogen-containing compound g removed from process i in stream j and destroyed over the period t. (This may be Pj, Bkj, or Rdj, as applicable.)

CHCgj = Concentration (mass fraction) of non-controlled substance halogen-containing compound g in stream j removed from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t. If this concentration is only a trace concentration, cHCgj is equal to zero.

Sj = Mass removed in stream j from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t (metric tons).

(vii) The mass of halogen-containing byproduct k removed from process i in stream l and recaptured over the period t must be estimated using equation 21 to this paragraph (c)(4)(vii).
Equation 21 to Paragraph (c)(4)(vii)

Bkl = CBkl * Sl

Where:

Bkl = Mass of halogen-containing byproduct k removed from process i in stream l and recaptured over the period t (metric tons).

cBkl = Concentration (mass fraction) of halogen-containing byproduct k in stream l removed from process i and recaptured over the period t. If this concentration is only a trace concentration, cBkl is equal to zero.

Sl = Mass removed in stream l from process i and recaptured over the period t (metric tons).

(viii) To estimate the terms FERd, FEP, and FEBk for equations 22, 23, and 24 to this section, you must account for the total mass of halogen emitted, EF, estimated in equation 17 to paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section. These emission characterization measurements must meet the requirements in paragraph (c)(4)(viii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, as appropriate. The sum of the terms must equal 1. You must document the data and calculations that are used to speciate individual compounds and to estimate FERd, FEP, and FEBk. Exclude from your calculations the halogen included in FD. For example, exclude halogen-containing compounds that are not controlled substances and that result from the destruction of controlled substances by any destruction devices (e.g., the mass of HF created by combustion of a chlorofluorocarbon). However, include emissions of controlled substance that survive the destruction process.

(A) If the calculations under paragraph (b)(1)(viii) of this section, or any subsequent measurements and calculations under this subpart, indicate that the process emits 0.1 metric tons controlled substance or more, estimate the emissions from each process vent, considering controls, using the methods in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. You must characterize the emissions of any process vent that emits 0.1 metric tons controlled substance or more as specified in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section.

(B) For other vents, including vents from processes that emit less than 0.1 metric tons of controlled substance, you must characterize emissions as specified in paragraph (d)(4)(v) of this section.

(C) For halogen emissions that are not accounted for by vent estimates, you must characterize emissions as specified in paragraph (d)(4)(vi) of this section.

(ix) The total mass of halogen-containing reactant d emitted must be estimated at least monthly based on the total halogen emitted and the fraction that consists of halogen-containing reactants using equation 22 to this paragraph (c)(4)(ix). If the halogen-containing reactant d is not a controlled substance, you may assume that FERd is zero.
Equation 22 to Paragraph (c)(4)(ix)

Where:

ER-it = Total mass of halogen-containing reactant d that is emitted from process i over the period t (metric tons).

FERd = The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of the halogen-containing reactant d.

EH = Total mass of halogen emissions from process i over the period t (metric tons), calculated in equation 17 to paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section.

FEP = The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of the halogen-containing product.

FEBk = The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of halogen-containing byproduct k.

MFFRd = Mass fraction of halogen in reactant d, calculated in equation 25 to paragraph (c)(4)(xii) of this section.

MFHP = Mass fraction of halogen in the product, calculated in equation 26 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiii) of this section.

MFHBk = Mass fraction of halogen in byproduct k, calculation in equation 27 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiv) of this section.

u = Number of halogen-containing byproducts generated in process i.

v = Number of halogen-containing reactants fed into process i.

(x) The total mass of halogen-containing product emitted must be estimated at least monthly based on the total halogen emitted and the fraction that consists of halogen-containing products using equation 23 to this paragraph (c)(4)(x). If the halogen-containing product is not a controlled substance, you may assume that FEP is zero.
Equation 23 to Paragraph (c)(4)(x)

Where:

EP-it = Total mass of halogen-containing product emitted from process i over the period t (metric tons).

FEP = The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of the halogen-containing product.

EH = Total mass of halogen emissions from process i over the period t (metric tons), calculated in equation 17 to paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section.

FERd = The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of halogen-containing reactant d.

FEBk = The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of halogen-containing byproduct k.

MFHRd = Mass fraction of halogen in reactant d, calculated in equation 25 to paragraph (c)(4)(xii) of this section.

MFHP = Mass fraction of halogen in the product, calculated in equation 26 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiii) of this section.

MFHBk = Mass fraction of halogen in byproduct k, calculation in equation 27 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiv) of this section.

u = Number of halogen-containing byproducts generated in process i.

v = Number of halogen-containing reactants fed into process i.

(xi) The total mass of halogen-containing byproduct k emitted must be estimated at least monthly based on the total halogen emitted and the fraction that consists of halogen-containing byproducts using equation 24 to this paragraph (c)(4)(xi). If halogen-containing byproduct k is not a controlled substance, you may assume that FEBk is zero.
Equation 24 to Paragraph (c)(4)(xi)

Where:

EBk-it = Total mass of halogen-containing byproduct k emitted from process i over the period t (metric tons).

FEBk = The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of halogen-containing byproduct k.

FERd = The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of halogen-containing reactant d.

FEP = The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of the halogen-containing product.

EH = Total mass of halogen emissions from process i over the period t (metric tons), calculated in equation 17 to paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section.

MFHRd = Mass fraction of halogen in reactant d, calculated in equation 25 to paragraph (c)(4)(xii) of this section.

MFHP = Mass fraction of halogen in the product, calculated in equation 26 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiii) of this section.

MFHBk = Mass fraction of halogen in byproduct k, calculation in equation 27 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiv) of this section.

u = Number of halogen-containing byproducts generated in process i.

v = Number of halogen-containing reactants fed into process i.

(xii) The mass fraction of halogen in reactant d must be estimated using equation 25 to this paragraph (c)(4)(xii).
Equation 25 to Paragraph (c)(4)(xii)

Where:

MFHRd = Mass fraction of halogen in reactant d (fraction).

MHRd = Moles halogen per mole of reactant d.

AWH = Atomic weight of halogen.

MWRd = Molecular weight of reactant d.

(xiii) The mass fraction of halogen in the product must be estimated using equation 26 to this paragraph (c)(4)(xiii).
Equation 26 to Paragraph (c)(4)(xiii)

Where:

MFHP = Mass fraction of halogen in the product (fraction).

MHP = Moles halogen per mole of product.

AWH = Atomic weight of halogen.

MWP = Molecular weight of the product produced.

(xiv) The mass fraction of each applicable halogen in byproduct k must be estimated using equation 27 to this paragraph (c)(4)(xiv).
Equation 27 to Paragraph (c)(4)(xiv)

Where:

MFHBk = Mass fraction of halogen in the product (fraction).

MHBk = Moles halogen per mole of byproduct k.

AWH = Atomic weight of halogen.

MWBk = Molecular weight of byproduct k.

(xv) As an alternative to using equation 18 to paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, you may estimate at least monthly the total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams containing halogen-containing compounds (including all halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts) using equation 28 to this paragraph (c)(4)(xv).
Equation 28 to Paragraph (c)(4)(xv)

Where:

FD = Total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams from process i containing halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts over the period t.

DEavgj = Weighted average destruction efficiency of the destruction device for the halogen-containing compounds identified in destroyed stream j under paragraphs (d)(4)(iv)(B) and (d)(4)(v)(B) of this section (calculated in equation 28 to this paragraph (c)(4)(xv)) (fraction).

cTHj = Concentration (mass fraction) of total halogen in stream j removed from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t. If this concentration is only a trace concentration, cTHj is equal to zero.

Sj = Mass removed in stream j from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t (metric tons).

cTHl = Concentration (mass fraction) of total halogen in stream l removed from process i and recaptured over the period t. If this concentration is only a trace concentration, cBkl is equal to zero.

Sl = Mass removed in stream l from process i and recaptured over the period t.

q = Number of streams destroyed in process i.

x = Number of streams recaptured in process i.

(xvi) For purposes of equation 28 to paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section, calculate the weighted average destruction efficiency applicable to a destroyed stream using equation 29 to this paragraph (c)(4)(xvi).
Equation 29 to Paragraph (c)(4)(xvi)

Where:

DEavgj = Weighted average destruction efficiency of the destruction device for the halogen-containing compounds identified in destroyed stream j under paragraph (d)(4)(iv)(B) or (d)(4)(v)(B) of this section, as appropriate.

DEContp = Destruction efficiency of the device that has been demonstrated for controlled substance p in stream j (fraction).

cContpj = Concentration (mass fraction) of controlled substance p in stream j removed from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t. If this concentration is only a trace concentration, cContpj is equal to zero.

cHCgj = Concentration (mass fraction) of non-controlled substance halogen-containing compound g in stream j removed from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t. If this concentration is only a trace concentration, cHCgj is equal to zero.

Sj = Mass removed in stream j from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t (metric tons).

MFHContp = Mass fraction of halogen in controlled substance p, calculated in equation 25, 26, or 27 to this section, as appropriate.

MFHHCg = Mass fraction of halogen in non-controlled substance halogen-containing compound g, calculated in equation 25, 26, or 27 to this section, as appropriate.

w = Number of controlled substances in destroyed stream j.

y = Number of non-controlled substance halogen-containing compounds in destroyed stream j.

(5) Calculate controlled substance emissions from destruction of controlled substances. Estimate annually the total mass of controlled substances emitted annually from destruction of controlled substances using equation 30 to this paragraph (c)(5):
Equation 30 to Paragraph (c)(5)

ED = RED * (1&#x2212;DE)

Where:

ED = The mass of controlled substances emitted annually from destruction of controlled substances (kilograms).

RED = The mass of controlled substances that are fed annually into the destruction unit (kilograms).

DE = Destruction efficiency of the destruction unit (fraction).

(6) Effective destruction efficiency for each process. If using the emission factor or emission calculation factor method to calculate emissions from the process, use equation 31 to this paragraph (c)(6) to calculate the effective destruction efficiency for the process, including each process vent:
Equation 31 to Paragraph (c)(6)

Where:

DEEffective = Effective destruction efficiency for process i (fraction).

EPVp = Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, for the year, calculated in equation 3, 7, or 8 to this section (kg).

ECFPV-Up = Emission calculation factor for controlled substance p emitted from process vent v during process i, operating scenario j, as used in equation 7 or 8 to this section (kg emitted/activity) (e.g., kg emitted/kg product), denoted as &#x201C;ECFPV&#x201D; in those equations.

EFPV-Up = Emission factor (uncontrolled) for controlled substance p emitted from process vent v during process i, operating scenario j, as used in equation 3 to paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(F) of this section (kg emitted/activity) (e.g., kg emitted/kg product), denoted as &#x201C;EFPV-U&#x201D; in that equation.

ActivityU = Total process feed, process production, or other process activity for process i, operating scenario j during the year, for which the process vent is not vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (i.e., uncontrolled).

ActivityC = Total process feed, process production, or other process activity for process i, operating scenario j during the year, for which emissions are vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (i.e., controlled).

o = Number of operating scenarios for process i.

v = Number of process vents in process i, operating scenario j.

w = Number of controlled substances emitted from the process.

(d) Monitoring and QA/QC requirements—(1) Initial scoping speciation to identify controlled substances from transformation processes. Each entity that transforms controlled substances must conduct an initial scoping speciation to identify all controlled substances that may be generated or emitted from transformation processes that are subject to this section. The entity is not required to quantify emissions under this initial scoping speciation. Only controlled substance products and byproducts that occur in greater than trace concentrations in at least one stream must be identified under this paragraph (d)(1).

(i) Procedure. To conduct the scoping speciation, select the stream(s) (including process streams or destroyed streams) or process vent(s) that would be expected to individually or collectively contain all of the controlled substance byproducts of the process at their maximum concentrations and sample and analyze the contents of these selected streams or process vents. For example, if controlled substance byproducts are separated into one low-boiling-point and one high-boiling-point stream, sample and analyze both of these streams. Alternatively, each entity may sample and analyze streams where controlled substance byproducts occur at less than their maximum concentrations, but the entity must ensure that the sensitivity of the analysis is sufficient to compensate for the expected difference in concentration. For example, if the entity samples and analyzes streams where controlled substance byproducts are expected to occur at one half their maximum concentrations elsewhere in the process, that entity must ensure that the sensitivity of the analysis is sufficient to detect controlled substance byproducts that occur at concentrations of 0.05 percent or higher. The entity does not have to sample and analyze every stream or process vent, i.e., the entity does not have to sample and analyze a stream or process vent that contains only controlled substances that are contained in other streams or process vents that are being sampled and analyzed. Sampling and analysis must be conducted according to the procedures in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.

(ii) Previous measurements. If testing of streams (including process streams or destroyed streams) or process vents were conducted less than 5 years before November 12, 2024, and the testing meets the requirements in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, each entity may use the previous testing to satisfy this requirement.

(2) Emission factor testing. If controlled substance emissions are determined using the site-specific process-vent-specific emission factor, each entity must meet the requirements in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) Process vent testing. Conduct an emissions test that is based on representative performance of the process or operating scenario(s) of the process, as applicable. For process vents for which each entity performed an initial scoping speciation, include in the emission test any controlled substance that was identified in the initial scoping speciation. For process vents for which the entity did not perform an initial scoping speciation, include in the emission test any controlled substance that occurs in more than trace concentrations in the vent stream or, where a destruction unit is used, in the inlet to the destruction unit. The entity may include startup and shutdown events if the testing is sufficiently long or comprehensive to ensure that such events are not overrepresented in the emission factor. Malfunction events must not be included in the testing. If the entity does not detect a controlled substance that was identified in the scoping speciation or that occurs in more than trace concentrations in the vent stream or in the inlet to the destruction unit, assume that controlled substance was emitted from the process vent, or from the destruction unit, at a concentration of one third of the detection limit.

(ii) Number of runs. For continuous processes, sample the process vent for a minimum of three runs of 1 hour each. If the relative standard deviation (RSD) of the emission factor calculated based on the first three runs is greater than or equal to 0.15 for the emission factor, continue to sample the process vent for an additional three runs of 1 hour each.

(iii) Process activity measurements. Determine the mass rate of process feed, process production, or other process activity as applicable during the test using flow meters, weigh scales, or other measurement devices or instruments with an accuracy and precision of &#xB1;1 percent of full scale or better. These devices may be the same plant instruments or procedures that are used for accounting purposes (such as weigh hoppers, belt weigh feeders, combination of volume measurements and bulk density, etc.) if these devices or procedures meet the requirement. For monitoring ongoing process activity, use flow meters, weigh scales, or other measurement devices or instruments with an accuracy and precision of &#xB1;1 percent of full scale or better.

(iv) Sample each process. If process vents from separate processes are manifolded together to a common vent or to a common destruction unit, each entity must follow paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.

(A) Each entity may sample emissions from each process in the ducts upstream from the point where the emissions are combined.

(B) Each entity may sample in the common duct or at the outlet of the destruction unit when only one process is operating.

(C) Each entity may sample the combined emissions and use engineering calculations and assessments as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section to allocate the emissions to each manifolded process vent, provided the sum of the calculated controlled substance emissions across the individual process vents is within 20 percent of the total controlled substance emissions measured during the manifolded testing.

(v) Emission test results. The results of an emission test must include the analysis of samples, number of test runs, the results of the RSD analysis, the analytical method used, determination of emissions, the process activity, and raw data and must identify the process, the operating scenario, the process vents tested, and the controlled substances that were included in the test. The emissions test report must contain all information and data used to derive the process-vent-specific emission factor, as well as key process conditions during the test. Key process conditions include those that are normally monitored for process control purposes and may include but are not limited to yields, pressures, temperatures, etc. (e.g., of reactor vessels, distillation columns).

(vi) Emissions testing frequency. Each entity must conduct emissions testing to develop the process-vent-specific emission factor under paragraph (d)(2)(vi)(A) or (B) of this section, whichever occurs first:

(A) 5-year revision. Conduct an emissions test every 5 years. In the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section, apply the revised process-vent-specific emission factor to the process activity that occurs after the revision.

(B) Operating scenario change that affects the emission factor. For planned operating scenario changes, each entity must estimate and compare the emission calculation factors for the changed operating scenario and for the original operating scenario whose process vent specific emission factor was measured. Use the calculation methods in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. If the emission calculation factor for the changed operating scenario is 15 percent or more different from the emission calculation factor for the previous operating scenario (this includes the cumulative change in the emission calculation factor since the most recent emissions test), the entity must conduct an emissions test to update the process-vent-specific emission factor, unless the difference between the operating scenarios is solely due to the application of a destruction unit to emissions under the changed operating scenario. Conduct the test before February 14 of the calendar year that immediately follows the change. In the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section, apply the revised process-vent-specific emission factor to the process activity that occurs after the operating scenario change.

(vii) Previous measurements. If an emissions test was conducted less than 5 years before November 12, 2024, and the emissions testing meets the requirements in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section, the entity may use the previous emissions testing to develop process-vent-specific emission factors. For purposes of paragraph (d)(2)(vi)(A) of this section, the date of the previous emissions test rather than November 12, 2024, shall constitute the beginning of the 5-year re-measurement cycle.

(3) Emission calculation factor monitoring. If controlled substance emissions were determined using the site-specific process-vent-specific emission calculation factor, each entity must meet the requirements in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Operating scenario. Perform the emissions calculation for the process vent based on representative performance of the operating scenario of the process. If more than one operating scenario applies to the process that contains the subject process vent, you must conduct a separate emissions calculation for operation under each operating scenario. For each continuous process vent that contains more than trace concentrations of any controlled substance and for each batch process vent that contains more than trace concentrations of any controlled substance, develop the process-vent-specific emission calculation factor for each operating scenario. For continuous process vents, determine the emissions based on the process activity for the representative performance of the operating scenario. For batch process vents, determine emissions based on the process activity for each typical batch operating scenario.

(ii) Process activity measurements. Use flow meters, weigh scales, or other measurement devices or instruments with an accuracy and precision of &#xB1;1 percent of full scale or better for monitoring ongoing process activity.

(iii) Emission calculation results. The emission calculation must be documented by identifying the process, the operating scenario, and the process vent(s). The documentation must contain the information and data used to calculate the process-vent-specific emission calculation factor.

(iv) Operating scenario change that affects the emission calculation factor. For planned operating scenario changes that are expected to change the process-vent-specific emission calculation factor, each entity must conduct an emissions calculation to update the process-vent-specific emission calculation factor. In the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section, apply the revised emission calculation factor to the process activity that occurs after the operating scenario change.

(v) Previous calculations. If an emissions calculation was performed for the process vent and operating scenario less than 5 years before November 12, 2024, and the emissions calculation meets the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section and in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section, each entity may use the previous calculation to develop the site-specific process-vent-specific emission calculation factor.

(4) Mass balance monitoring. If you determine controlled substance emissions from any process using the mass balance method under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, you must estimate the total mass of each controlled substance emitted from that process at least monthly. Only streams that contain greater than trace concentrations of halogen-containing reactants, products, or byproducts must be monitored under this paragraph (d)(4).

(i) Mass measurements. Measure the following masses on a monthly or more frequent basis using flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with accuracies and precisions that allow the facility to meet the error criteria in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section:

(A) Total mass of each halogen-containing product produced. Account for any used halogen-containing product added into the production process upstream of the output measurement as directed at §§ 98.413(b) and 98.414(b) of this chapter.

(B) Total mass of each halogen-containing reactant fed into the process.

(C) The mass removed from the process in each stream fed into the destruction device.

(D) The mass removed from the process in each recaptured stream.

(ii) Concentration measurements for use with paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section. If you use paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section to estimate the mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, measure the following concentrations at least once each calendar month during which the process is operating, on a schedule to ensure that the measurements are representative of the full range of process conditions (e.g., catalyst age). Measure more frequently if this is necessary to meet the error criteria in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section. Use equipment and methods (e.g., gas chromatography) that comply with paragraph (d)(5) of this section and that have an accuracy and precision that allow the facility to meet the error criteria in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section. Only halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts that occur in a stream in greater than trace concentrations must be monitored under this paragraph (d)(4)(ii).

(A) The concentration (mass fraction) of the halogen-containing product in each stream that is fed into the destruction device.

(B) The concentration (mass fraction) of each halogen-containing byproduct in each stream that is fed into the destruction device.

(C) The concentration (mass fraction) of each halogen-containing reactant in each stream that is fed into the destruction device.

(D) The concentration (mass fraction) of each halogen-containing byproduct in each stream that is recaptured (cBkl).

(iii) Concentration measurements for use with paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section. If you use paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section to estimate the mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, measure the concentrations listed in paragraphs (d)(4)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section at least once each calendar month during which the process is operating, on a schedule to ensure that the measurements are representative of the full range of process conditions (e.g., catalyst age). Measure more frequently if this is necessary to meet the error criteria in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section. Use equipment and methods (e.g., gas chromatography) that comply with paragraph (d)(5) of this section and that have an accuracy and precision that allow the facility to meet the error criteria in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section. Only halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts that occur in a stream in greater than trace concentrations must be monitored under this paragraph (d)(4)(iii).

(A) The concentration (mass fraction) of total halogen in each stream that is fed into the destruction device.

(B) The concentration (mass fraction) of total halogen in each stream that is recaptured.

(iv) Emissions characterization: process vents emitting 0.1 metric tons or more. To characterize emissions from any process vent emitting 0.1 metric tons of controlled substances or more, comply with paragraphs (d)(4)(iv)(A) through (E) of this section, as appropriate. Only halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts that occur in a stream in greater than trace concentrations must be monitored under this paragraph (d)(4)(iv).

(A) Uncontrolled emissions. If emissions from the process vent are not routed through a destruction device, sample and analyze emissions at the process vent or stack or sample and analyze emitted streams before the process vent. If the process has more than one operating scenario, you must either perform the emission characterization for each operating scenario or perform the emission characterization for the operating scenario that is expected to have the largest emissions and adjust the emission characterization for other scenarios using engineering calculations and assessments as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. To perform the characterization, take three samples under conditions that are representative for the operating scenario. Measure the concentration of each halogen-containing compound in each sample. Use equipment and methods that comply with paragraph (d)(5) of this section. Calculate the average concentration of each halogen-containing compound across all three samples.

(B) Controlled emissions using paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section. If you use paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section to estimate the total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, and if the emissions from the process vent are routed through a destruction device, characterize emissions as specified in paragraph (d)(4)(iv)(A) of this section before the destruction device. Apply the destruction efficiency demonstrated for each controlled substance in the destroyed stream to that controlled substance. Exclude from the characterization halogen-containing compounds that are not controlled substances.

(C) Controlled emissions using paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section. If you use paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section to estimate the mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, and if the emissions from the process vent are routed through a destruction device, characterize the process vent's emissions monthly (or more frequently) using the monthly (or more frequent) measurements under paragraphs (d)(4)(i)(C) and (d)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. Apply the destruction efficiency demonstrated for each controlled substance in the destroyed stream to that controlled substance. Exclude from the characterization halogen-containing compounds that are not controlled substances.

(D) Emissions characterization frequency. You must repeat emission characterizations performed under paragraphs (d)(4)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section under paragraph (d)(4)(iv)(D)(1) or (2) of this section, whichever occurs first:

(1) 5-year revision. Repeat the emission characterization every 5 years. In the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section, apply the revised emission characterization to the process activity that occurs after the revision.

(2) Operating scenario change that affects the emission characterization. For planned operating scenario changes, you must estimate and compare the emission calculation factors for the changed operating scenario and for the original operating scenario whose process vent specific emission factor was measured. Use the engineering calculations and assessments specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. If the share of total halogen-containing compound emissions represented by any controlled substance changes under the changed operating scenario by 15 percent or more of the total, relative to the previous operating scenario (this includes the cumulative change in the emission calculation factor since the last emissions test), you must repeat the emission characterization. Perform the emission characterization before February 14 of the year that immediately follows the change. In the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section, apply the revised emission characterization to the process activity that occurs after the operating scenario change.

(E) Subsequent measurements. If a process vent with controlled substance emissions less than 0.1 metric tons, per paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, is later found to have controlled substance emissions of 0.1 metric tons or greater, you must perform an emission characterization under this paragraph (d)(4)(iv)(E) during the following year.

(v) Emissions characterization: process vents emitting less than 0.1 metric tons. To characterize emissions from any process vent emitting less than 0.1 metric tons, comply with paragraphs (d)(4)(v)(A) and (B) of this section, as appropriate. Only halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts that occur in a stream in greater than trace concentrations must be monitored under this paragraph (d)(4)(v).

(A) Uncontrolled emissions. If emissions from the process vent are not routed through a destruction device, emission measurements must consist of sampling and analysis of emissions at the process vent or stack, sampling and analysis of emitted streams before the process vent, previous test results, provided the tests are representative of current operating conditions of the process, or bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process operating conditions.

(B) Controlled emissions using paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section. If you use paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section to estimate the total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, and if the emissions from the process vent are routed through a destruction device, characterize emissions as specified in paragraph (d)(4)(v)(A) of this section before the destruction device. Apply the destruction efficiency demonstrated for each controlled substance in the destroyed stream to that controlled substance. Exclude from the characterization halogen-containing compounds that are not controlled substances.

(C) Controlled emissions using paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section. If you use paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section to estimate the mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, and if the emissions from the process vent are routed through a destruction device, characterize the process vent's emissions monthly (or more frequently) using the monthly (or more frequent) measurements under paragraphs (d)(4)(i)(C) and (d)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. Apply the destruction efficiency demonstrated for each controlled substance in the destroyed stream to that controlled substance. Exclude from the characterization halogen-containing compounds that are not controlled substances.

(vi) Emissions characterization: emissions not accounted for by process vent estimates. Calculate the weighted average emission characterization across the process vents before any destruction devices. Apply the weighted average emission characterization for all the process vents to any halogen emissions that are not accounted for by process vent estimates.

(vii) Impurities in reactants. If any halogen-containing impurity is fed into a process along with a reactant (or other input) in greater than trace concentrations, this impurity shall be monitored under this section and included in the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section in the same manner as reactants fed into the process, fed into the destruction device, recaptured, or emitted, except the concentration of the impurity in the mass fed into the process shall be measured, and the mass of the impurity fed into the process shall be calculated as the product of the concentration of the impurity and the mass fed into the process. The mass of the reactant fed into the process may be reduced to account for the mass of the impurity.

(viii) Alternative to error calculation. As an alternative to calculating the relative and absolute errors associated with the estimate of emissions under this paragraph (d)(4), you may comply with the precision, accuracy, and measurement and calculation frequency requirements of paragraph (d)(4)(viii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Mass measurements. Measure the masses specified in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section using flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with accuracies and precisions of &#xB1;0.2 percent of full scale or better.

(B) Concentration measurements. Measure the concentrations specified in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) or (iii) of this section, as applicable, using analytical methods with accuracies and precisions of &#xB1;10 percent or better.

(C) Measurement and calculation frequency. Perform the mass measurements specified in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section and the concentration measurements specified in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) or (iii) of this section, as applicable, at least weekly, and calculate emissions at least weekly.

(5) Emission and stream testing, including analytical methods. Select and document testing and analytical methods as follows:

(i) Sampling and mass measurement for emission testing. For emission testing in process vents or at the stack, use methods for sampling, measuring volumetric flow rates, non-controlled substance gas analysis, and measuring stack gas moisture that have been validated using a scientifically sound validation protocol.

(A) Sample and velocity traverses. Acceptable methods include but are not limited to EPA Method 1 or 1A in appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60.

(B) Velocity and volumetric flow rates. Acceptable methods include but are not limited to EPA Method 2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G in appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60. Alternatives that may be used for determining flow rates include Other Test Method 24 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27) and ALT-012 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).

(C) Non-controlled substance gas analysis. Acceptable methods include but are not limited to EPA Method 3, 3A, or 3B in appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60.

(D) Stack gas moisture. Acceptable methods include but are not limited to EPA Method 4 in appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60.

(ii) Analytical methods. Use a quality-assured analytical measurement technology capable of detecting the analyte of interest at the concentration of interest and use a sampling and analytical procedure validated with the analyte of interest at the concentration of interest. Where calibration standards for the analyte are not available, a chemically similar surrogate may be used. Acceptable analytical measurement technologies include but are not limited to gas chromatography (GC) with an appropriate detector, infrared (IR), Fourier transform infrared (FTIR), and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). Acceptable methods for determining controlled substances include EPA Method 18 in appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60, EPA Method 320 in appendix A to 40 CFR part 63, EPA 430-R-10-003 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27), ASTM D6348-03 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27), or other analytical methods validated using EPA Method 301 at appendix A to 40 CFR part 63. The validation protocol may include analytical technology manufacturer specifications or recommendations.

(iii) Documentation in the monitoring plan. Describe the sampling, measurement, and analytical method(s) used under paragraphs (d)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section in the monitoring plan. Identify the methods used to obtain the samples and measurements listed under paragraphs (d)(5)(i)(A) through (D) of this section. At a minimum, include in the description of the analytical method a description of the analytical measurement equipment and procedures, quantitative estimates of the method's accuracy and precision for the analytes of interest at the concentrations of interest, as well as a description of how these accuracies and precisions were estimated, including the validation protocol used.

(6) Emission monitoring for pieces of equipment. If conducting a site-specific leak detection method or monitoring approach for pieces of equipment, each entity must follow paragraph (d)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section and follow paragraph (d)(6)(iii) of this section.

(i) Site-specific leak monitoring approach. Each entity may develop a site-specific leak monitoring approach. The entity must validate the leak monitoring method and describe the method and the validation in the monitoring plan. To validate the site-specific method, the entity may, for example, release a known rate of the controlled substances or surrogates of interest, or may compare the results of the site-specific method to those of a method that has been validated for the controlled substances or surrogates of interest. In the description of the leak detection method and its validation, include a detailed description of the method, including the procedures and equipment used and any sampling strategies. Also include the rationale behind the method, including why the method is expected to result in an unbiased estimate of emissions from equipment leaks. If the method is based on methods that are used to detect or quantify leaks or other emissions in other regulations, standards, or guidelines, identify and describe the regulations, standards, or guidelines and why their methods are applicable to emissions of controlled substances or surrogates from leaks. Account for possible sources of error in the method, e.g., instrument detection limits, measurement biases, and sampling biases. Describe validation efforts, including but not limited to any comparisons against standard leaks or concentrations, any comparisons against other methods, and their results. If using the Screening Ranges Approach, the EPA Correlation Approach, or the Unit-Specific Correlation Approach with a monitoring instrument that does not meet all of the specifications in EPA Method 21 in appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, then explain how and why the monitoring instrument, as used at the facility, would nevertheless be expected to accurately detect and quantify emissions of controlled substances or surrogates from process equipment, and describe how accuracy was verified. For all methods, provide a quantitative estimate of the accuracy and precision of the method.

(ii) EPA Method 21 monitoring. If it is determined that EPA Method 21 in appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 is appropriate for monitoring a controlled substance, conduct the screening value concentration measurements using EPA Method 21 to determine the screening range data or the actual screening value data for the Screening Ranges Approach, EPA Correlation Approach, or the Unit-Specific Correlation Approach. For the one-time testing to develop the Unit-Specific Correlation equations in EPA-453/R-95-017 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27), conduct the screening value concentration measurements using EPA Method 21 and the bagging procedures to measure mass emissions. Concentration measurements of bagged samples must be conducted using gas chromatography following analytical procedures in EPA Method 18 in appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60 or other method according to this paragraph (d)(6). Use methane or other appropriate compound as the calibration gas.

(iii) Frequency of measurement and sampling. If estimating emissions based on monitoring of equipment, each entity must conduct monitoring at least annually. Sample at least one-third of equipment annually (except for equipment that is unsafe-to-monitor, difficult-to-monitor, insulated, or in heavy liquid service, pumps with dual mechanical seals, agitators with dual mechanical seals, pumps with no external shaft, agitators with no external shaft, pressure relief devices in gas and vapor service with an upstream rupture disk, sampling connection systems with closed-loop or closed purge systems, and pieces of equipment whose leaks are routed through a closed vent system to a destruction unit), changing the sample each year such that at the end of three years, all equipment in the process (that is not subject to the above-listed exceptions) has been monitored. If estimating emissions based on a sample of the equipment in the process, ensure that the sample is representative of the equipment in the process. If there are multiple processes that have similar types of equipment in similar service, and that perform activities on similar controlled substances (in terms of chemical composition, molecular weight, and vapor pressure) at similar pressures and concentrations, then the entity may annually sample all of the equipment in one third of these processes rather than one third of the equipment in each process.

(7) Destruction unit performance testing. If venting or otherwise feeding controlled substances into a destruction unit and apply the destruction efficiency of the device to one or more controlled substances in paragraph (c) of this section, each entity must conduct emissions testing to determine the destruction efficiency for each controlled substance to which the destruction efficiency was applied. The entity must either determine the destruction efficiency for the most-difficult-to-destroy controlled substance fed into the device (or a surrogate that is still more difficult to destroy) and apply that destruction efficiency to all the controlled substances fed into the device or alternatively determine different destruction efficiencies for different groups of controlled substances using the most-difficult-to-destroy controlled substance of each group (or a surrogate that is still more difficult to destroy).

(i) Destruction efficiency testing. Each entity must sample the inlet and outlet of the destruction unit for a minimum of three runs of 1 hour each to determine the destruction efficiency. The entity must conduct the emissions testing using the methods in paragraph (d)(5) of this section. To determine the destruction efficiency, emission testing must be conducted when operating at high loads reasonably expected to occur (i.e., representative of high total controlled substance load that will be sent to the device) and when destroying the most-difficult-to-destroy controlled substance (or a surrogate that is still more difficult to destroy) that is fed into the device from the processes subject to this section or that belongs to the group of controlled substances for which destruction efficiency is to be established. If the outlet concentration of a controlled substance that is fed into the device is below the detection limit of the method, the entity may use an outlet concentration of one-third the detection limit to estimate the destruction efficiency.

(A) For all other controlled substances that are vented to the destruction unit in any stream in more than trace concentrations, each entity must test and determine the destruction efficiency achieved for the most-difficult-to-destroy controlled substance or surrogate vented to the destruction unit. Examples of acceptable surrogates include the Class 1 compounds (ranked 1 through 34) in Appendix D, Table D-1 of &#x201C;Guidance on Setting Permit Conditions and Reporting Trial Burn Results; Volume II of the Hazardous Waste Incineration Guidance Series,&#x201D; January 1989, EPA Publication EPA 625/6-89/019. A copy of this publication can be obtained by contacting the Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20460, (202) 272-0167, https://www.epa.gov.

(B) [Reserved]

(ii) Destruction efficiency testing frequency. Each entity must conduct emissions testing to determine the destruction efficiency as provided in paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, whichever occurs first:

(A) Conduct an emissions test every 5 years. In the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section, apply the updated destruction efficiency to the destruction that occurs after the test.

(B) Destruction unit changes that affect the destruction efficiency. If making a change to the destruction unit that would be expected to affect the destruction efficiency, each entity must conduct an emissions test to update the destruction efficiency. Conduct the test before February 14 of the year that immediately follows the change. In the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section, apply the updated destruction efficiency to the destruction that occurs after the change to the device.

(iii) Previous testing. If an emissions test was conducted within the 5 years prior to November 12, 2024, and the emissions testing meets the requirements in paragraph (d)(7)(i) of this section, each entity may use the destruction efficiency determined during this previous emissions testing. For purposes of paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) of this section, the date of the previous emissions test rather than November 12, 2024, shall constitute the beginning of the 5-year re-measurement cycle.

(iv) Hazardous waste combustor testing. If a destruction unit used to destroy a controlled substance is subject to testing under subpart EEE of part 63 of this chapter or any portion of parts 260 through 270 of this chapter, each entity may apply the destruction efficiency specifically determined for controlled substances under that test if the testing meets the criteria in paragraph (d)(7)(i)(A) of this section. If the testing of the destruction efficiency under subpart EEE of part 63 was conducted more than 5 years ago, the entity may use the most recent destruction efficiency test provided that the design, operation, and maintenance of the destruction unit has not changed since the last destruction efficiency test in a manner that could affect the ability to achieve the destruction efficiency, and the hazardous waste is fed into the normal flame zone.

(8) Mass of previously produced controlled substances fed into a destruction unit. Each entity must measure the mass of each controlled substance that is fed into the destruction unit in more than trace concentrations. Such controlled substances include but are not limited to quantities that are shipped to the facility by another facility for destruction and quantities that are returned to the facility for reclamation but are found to be irretrievably contaminated and are therefore destroyed. The entity must use flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with an accuracy and precision of &#xB1;1 percent of full scale or better. If the measured mass includes more than trace concentrations of materials other than the controlled substance being destroyed, the entity must measure the concentration of the controlled substance being destroyed. The entity must multiply this concentration (mass fraction) by the mass measurement to obtain the mass of the controlled substance fed into the destruction unit.

(9) Emissions due to malfunctions of destruction unit. In their estimates of the mass of controlled substances destroyed, facilities that destroy controlled substances must account for any temporary reductions in the destruction efficiency that result from any malfunctions of the destruction unit, including periods of operation outside of the operating conditions defined in operating permit requirements and/or outside of the destruction unit's manufacturer's specifications.

(10) Emissions due to process startup, shutdown, or malfunctions. For each process listed in paragraph (b) of this section, each entity must account for emissions of controlled substance that occur at each facility as a result of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions, either recording controlled substance emissions during these events, or documenting that these events do not result in significant controlled substance emissions. Facilities may use the calculation methods in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section to estimate emissions during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions.

(11) Development of initial parameters. Initial scoping speciations, emissions testing, emission factor development, emission calculation factor development, emission characterization development, and destruction efficiency determinations must be completed by February 7, 2025, for processes and operating scenarios that operate between October 10, 2024, and November 12, 2024. For other processes and operating scenarios, initial scoping specifications, emissions testing, emission factor development, emission calculation factor development, emission characterization development, and destruction efficiency determinations must be complete by February 14 of the year following the year in which the process or operating scenario commences or recommences.

(12) Calibration for volumetric and density measurements. Calibrate all flow meters, weigh scales, and combinations of volumetric and density measures using monitoring instruments traceable to the International System of Units (SI) through the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) or other recognized national measurement institute. Recalibrate all flow meters, weigh scales, and combinations of volumetric and density measures at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer. Use any of the following applicable flow meter test methods or the calibration procedures specified by the flow meter, weigh-scale, or other volumetric or density measure manufacturer.

(i) ASME MFC-3M-2004 Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Orifice, Nozzle, and Venturi (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).

(ii) ASME MFC-4M-1986 (Reaffirmed 2016) Measurement of Gas Flow by Turbine Meters (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).

(iii) ASME-MFC-5M-1985, (Reaffirmed1994) Measurement of Liquid Flow in Closed Conduits Using Transit-Time Ultrasonic Flowmeters (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).

(iv) ASME MFC-6M-1998 Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Vortex Flowmeters (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).

(v) ASME MFC-7M-1987 (Reaffirmed 1992) Measurement of Gas Flow by Means of Critical Flow Venturi Nozzles (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).

(vi) ASME MFC-9M-1988 (Reaffirmed 2001) Measurement of Liquid Flow in Closed Conduits by Weighing Method (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).

(vii) ASME MFC-11M-2006 Measurement of Fluid Flow by Means of Coriolis Mass Flowmeters (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).

(viii) ASME MFC-14M-2003 Measurement of Fluid Flow Using Small Bore Precision Orifice Meters (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).

(13) Calibration for concentration determinations. All analytical equipment used to determine the concentration of controlled substances, including but not limited to gas chromatographs and associated detectors, IR, FTIR, and NMR devices, must be calibrated at a frequency needed to support the type of analysis specified in the monitoring plan as required under paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section. Quality assurance samples at the concentrations of concern must be used for the calibration. Such quality assurance samples must consist of or be prepared from certified standards of the analytes of concern where available; if not available, calibration must be performed by a method specified in the monitoring plan.

(e) Data reporting requirements—(1) All facilities. In addition to the information required by § 82.13, for class I controlled substances, and § 82.24, for class II controlled substances, each entity must report the information in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section according to the schedule in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section.

(i) Frequency of reporting under this paragraph (e)(1). The information in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (v) of this section must be reported annually, as applicable.

(ii) Process identification. For each process listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, each entity must provide:

(A) A description and identification of the process listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(B) A description and number, letter, or other identifier for each process vent associated with the process. This identifier must be a consistent name reported from year to year.

(C) The type of method(s) (i.e., process-vent-specific emission factor, process-vent-specific emission calculation factor, or mass balance) and each applicable analytical approach (e.g., compliance options under paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (d)(4) of this section) used to determine the mass emissions from each process vent associated with the process.

(D) The type of method(s) (e.g., site-specific leak monitoring approach or EPA Method 21 monitoring) and each applicable analytical approach (e.g., compliance options under paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (d)(4) of this section) used to determine the mass emissions from equipment leaks associated with the process.

(iii) Process emissions. For each controlled substance, each entity must report the total mass in kilograms of the controlled substance emitted from the processes listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(iv) Effective destruction efficiency. For each process and controlled substance, report the effective destruction efficiency, DEeffective, calculated for that process using equation 31 to paragraph (c)(6) of this section.

(v) Monitoring plan. The monitoring plan, as specified in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, including any revisions since the prior year's submission as applicable.

(2) Reporting for emission factor and emission calculation factor approach. For processes whose emissions are determined using the emission factor approach under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section or the emission calculation factor under paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, each entity must report the following for each process.

(i) The identity and quantity of the process activity used to estimate emissions (e.g., tons of product produced or tons of reactant consumed) for each process vent associated with the process.

(ii) The site-specific, process-vent-specific emission factor(s) or emission calculation factor for each process vent associated with the process.

(iii) For each controlled substance, the mass emitted from each process vent associated with the process, in kilograms.

(iv) For each controlled substance, the total mass emitted from equipment leaks, in kilograms.

(3) Reporting for mass balance approach. For processes whose emissions are determined using the mass-balance approach under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, you must report the information listed in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (xiii) of this section for each process on an annual basis. Identify and separately report controlled substance emissions from transformation processes where the controlled substance reactants are produced at another facility. If you use an element other than a halogen in the mass-balance equation pursuant to paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section, substitute that element for the halogen in the reporting requirements of this paragraph (e)(3).

(i) If you calculate the relative and absolute errors under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, the absolute and relative errors calculated under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, as well as the data (including quantities and their accuracies and precisions) used in these calculations.

(ii) The balanced chemical equation that describes the reaction used to manufacture the controlled substance product and each controlled substance transformation product.

(iii) The mass and chemical formula of each controlled substance reactant emitted from the process in metric tons.

(iv) The mass and chemical formula of the controlled substance product emitted from the process in metric tons.

(v) The mass and chemical formula of each controlled substance byproduct emitted from the process in metric tons.

(vi) The mass and chemical formula of each controlled substance reactant that is fed into the process (metric tons).

(vii) The mass and chemical formula of each halogen-containing product produced by the process (metric tons).

(viii) If you use paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section to estimate the total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, report the following.

(A) The mass and chemical formula of each halogen-containing product that is removed from the process and fed into the destruction device (metric tons).

(B) The mass and chemical formula of each halogen-containing byproduct that is removed from the process and fed into the destruction device (metric tons).

(C) The mass and chemical formula of each halogen-containing reactant that is removed from the process and fed into the destruction device (metric tons).

(D) The mass and chemical formula of each halogen-containing byproduct that is removed from the process and recaptured (metric tons).

(E) The demonstrated destruction efficiency of the destruction device for each controlled substance fed into the device from the process in greater than trace concentrations (fraction).

(ix) If you use paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section to estimate the total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, report the following.

(A) The mass of halogen in each stream that is fed into the destruction device (metric tons).

(B) The mass of halogen that is recaptured (metric tons).

(C) The weighted average destruction efficiency of the destruction device calculated for each stream under paragraph (c)(4)(xvi) of this section.

(x) The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of each halogen-containing reactant.

(xi) The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of the halogen-containing product.

(xii) The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of each halogen-containing byproduct.

(xiii) The method used to estimate the total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams (specify paragraph (c)(4)(iv) or (xv) of this section).

(4) Reporting of destruction unit excess emission data. Each facility that destroys a controlled substance must report the excess emissions that result from malfunctions of the destruction unit, and these excess emissions must be reflected in the controlled substance estimates in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Such excess emissions would occur if the destruction efficiency was reduced due to the malfunction.

(5) Reporting of destruction unit testing. By February 7, 2025, or by February 14 of the year immediately following the year in which it begins controlled substance destruction, each facility that destroys controlled substances must submit a report containing the information in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section. This report is one-time unless a change is made to the destruction unit that would be expected to affect its destruction efficiencies.

(i) Chemical identity of the controlled substance(s) used in the performance test conducted to determine destruction efficiency, including surrogates, and information on why the surrogate is sufficient to demonstrate the destruction efficiency for each controlled substance, consistent with requirements in paragraph (d)(7)(i) of this section, vented to the destruction unit.

(ii) Date of the most recent destruction unit test.

(iii) Name of all applicable Federal or State regulations that may apply to the destruction process.

(6) Reporting for destruction. Each facility that destroys controlled substances must report, separately from the controlled substance emissions reported under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the following for each previously produced controlled substance destroyed:

(i) The mass of the controlled substance emitted from the destruction unit (kilograms).

(ii) [Reserved]

(7) Reporting of controlled substance products of incomplete combustion (PICs) of controlled substances. Each facility that destroys controlled substances must submit a one-time report by February 7, 2025, or by February 14 of the year immediately following the year in which it begins controlled substance destruction, that describes any measurements, research, or analysis that it has performed or obtained that relate to the formation of products of incomplete combustion that are controlled substances during the destruction of controlled substances. The report must include the methods and results of any measurement or modeling studies, including the products of incomplete combustion for which the exhaust stream was analyzed, as well as copies of relevant scientific papers, if available, or citations of the papers, if they are not. No new testing is required to fulfill the requirement of this paragraph (e)(7).

(f) Records that must be retained. Each entity must retain the dated records specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (6) of this section, as applicable, and be able to provide such information to EPA within 5 business days of the date the records are requested.

(1) Process information records. (i) Identify all processes subject to this section. Include the unit identification as appropriate, the process identification reported for the process under paragraphs (e)(1)(ii)(A) through (B) of this section, and the product with which the process is associated.

(ii) Monthly and annual records, as applicable, of all analyses and calculations conducted as required under paragraph (c) of this section, including the data monitored under paragraph (d) of this section, and all information reported as required under paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) Scoping speciation. Retain records documenting the information collected under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(3) Emission factor and emission calculation factor method. Retain the following records for each process for which the emission factor or emission calculation factor method was used to estimate emissions.

(i) Identify all continuous process vents with emissions of controlled substances that are included in the top 25 percent of continuous process vents, and all continuous process vents in the remaining group (i.e., 75 percent of continuous process vents with lower emissions of controlled substances). Include the data and calculation used to develop the preliminary estimate of emissions for each process vent.

(ii) Identify all batch process vents.

(iii) For each vent, identify the method used to develop the factor (i.e., emission factor by emissions test or emission calculation factor).

(iv) The emissions test data and reports (see paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section) and the calculations used to determine the process-vent-specific emission factor, including the actual process-vent-specific emission factor, the average hourly emission rate of each controlled substance from the process vent during the test and the process feed rate, process production rate, or other process activity rate during the test.

(v) The process-vent-specific emission calculation factor and the calculations used to determine the process-vent-specific emission calculation factor.

(vi) The annual process production quantity or other process activity information in the appropriate units, along with the dates and time period during which the process was operating and dates and time periods the process vents are vented to the destruction unit. As an alternative to date and time periods when process vents are vented to the destruction unit, a facility may track dates and time periods that process vents by-pass the destruction unit.

(vii) Calculations used to determine annual emissions of each controlled substance for each process and the total controlled substance emissions for all processes, i.e., total for facility.

(4) Mass-balance method. Retain the following records for each process for which the mass-balance method was used to estimate emissions. If you use an element other than a halogen in the mass-balance equation pursuant to paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section, substitute that element for the halogen in the recordkeeping requirements of this paragraph (f)(4).

(i) The data and calculations used to estimate the absolute and relative errors associated with use of the mass-balance approach.

(ii) The data and calculations used to estimate the mass of halogen emitted from the process.

(iii) The data and calculations used to determine the fractions of the mass emitted consisting of each reactant (FERd), product (FEP), and byproduct (FEBk), including the preliminary calculations in paragraph (c)(4)(viii)(A) of this section.

(5) Destruction efficiency testing. A facility that destroys controlled substances and reflects this destruction in paragraph (c) of this section must retain the emissions performance testing reports (including revised reports) for each destruction unit. The emissions performance testing report must contain all information and data used to derive the destruction efficiency for each controlled substance whose destruction the facility reflects in paragraph (c) of this section, as well as the key process and device conditions during the test. This information includes the following:

(i) Destruction efficiency (DE) determined for each controlled substance whose destruction the facility reflects in paragraph (c) of this section, in accordance with paragraph (d)(7)(i)(A) of this section.

(ii) Chemical identity of the controlled substance(s) used in the performance test conducted to determine destruction efficiency, including surrogates, and information on why the surrogate is sufficient to demonstrate destruction efficiency for each controlled substance, consistent with requirements in paragraph (d)(7)(i)(A) of this section, vented to the destruction unit.

(iii) Mass flow rate of the stream containing the controlled substance or surrogate into the device during the test.

(iv) Concentration (mass fraction) of each controlled substance or surrogate in the stream flowing into the device during the test.

(v) Concentration (mass fraction) of each controlled substance or surrogate at the outlet of the destruction unit during the test.

(vi) Mass flow rate at the outlet of the destruction unit during the test.

(vii) Test methods and analytical methods used to determine the mass flow rates and controlled substance (or surrogate) concentrations of the streams flowing into and out of the destruction unit during the test.

(viii) Destruction unit conditions that are normally monitored for device control, such as temperature, total mass flow rates into the device, and CO or O2 levels.

(ix) Name of all applicable Federal or State regulations that may apply to the destruction process.

(6) Equipment leak records. If the equipment is subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, each entity must maintain information on the number of each type of equipment, the service of each piece of equipment (gas, light liquid, heavy liquid); the concentration of each controlled substance in the stream; each piece of equipment excluded from monitoring requirement; the time period each piece of equipment was in service, and the emission calculations for each controlled substance for all processes. Depending on the equipment leak monitoring approach followed, each entity must maintain information for equipment on the associated screening data concentrations for greater than or equal to 10,000 ppmv and associated screening data concentrations for less than 10,000 ppmv; associated actual screening data concentrations; and associated screening data and leak rate data (i.e., bagging) used to develop a unit-specific correlation. If a site-specific leak detection approach was developed and followed, provide the records for monitoring events and the emissions estimation calculations, as appropriate, consistent with the approach for equipment leak emission estimation in the monitoring plan.

(7) All facilities. Dated records documenting the initial and periodic calibration of all analytical equipment used to determine the concentration of controlled substances, including but not limited to gas chromatographs, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, gas chromatograph-electron capture detector, FTIR, and NMR devices, and all mass measurement equipment such as weigh scales, flowmeters, and volumetric and density measures used to measure the quantities reported under this section, including the industry standards or manufacturer directions used for calibration pursuant to paragraphs (d)(5), (6), (12), and (13) of this section.

(8) Controlled substance monitoring plan. A Controlled Substance Monitoring Plan must be completed by February 7, 2025, or within 120 days of the date that an entity first meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section.

(i) At a minimum, the monitoring plan shall include the elements listed in this paragraph (f)(8)(i) of this section.

(A) Identification of positions of responsibility (i.e., job titles) for collection of the emission data.

(B) Explanation of the processes and methods used to collect the necessary data for calculations under this section.

(C) Description of the procedures and methods that are used for quality assurance, maintenance, and repair of all continuous monitoring systems, flow meters, and other instrumentation used to provide data for the controlled substances reported under this part.

(ii) The monitoring plan may rely on references to existing corporate documents (e.g., standard operating procedures, quality assurance programs under appendix F to 40 CFR part 60 or appendix B to 40 CFR part 75, and other documents) provided that the elements required by paragraph (f)(8)(i) of this section are easily recognizable.

(iii) The owner or operator shall revise the monitoring as needed to reflect changes in production processes, monitoring instrumentation, and quality assurance procedures; or to improve procedures for the maintenance and repair of monitoring systems to reduce the frequency of monitoring equipment downtime.
[89 FR 82433, Oct. 10, 2024]

### § 82.26 Treatment of data submitted under this subpart.

(a) Sections 2.201 through 2.215 and 2.301 of this chapter do not apply to data submitted under this subpart that EPA has determined through rulemaking to be either of the following:

(1) Emission data, as defined in § 2.301(a)(2) of this chapter, determined in accordance with section 114(c) and 307(d) of the Clean Air Act; or

(2) Data not otherwise entitled to confidential treatment.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d) of this section and §§ 2.201 through 2.208 and 2.301(c) and (d) of this chapter do not apply to data submitted under this part that EPA has determined through rulemaking to be entitled to confidential treatment. EPA shall treat that information as confidential in accordance with the provisions of § 2.211 of this chapter, subject to paragraph (d) of this section and § 2.209 of this chapter.

(c) Upon receiving a request under 5 U.S.C. 552 for data submitted under this part that EPA has determined through rulemaking to be entitled to confidential treatment, the relevant Agency official shall furnish the requestor a notice that the information has been determined to be entitled to confidential treatment and that the request is therefore denied. The notice shall include or cite to the appropriate EPA determination.

(d) A determination made through rulemaking that information submitted under this part is entitled to confidential treatment shall continue in effect unless, subsequent to the confidentiality determination through rulemaking, EPA takes one of the following actions:

(1) EPA determines through a subsequent rulemaking that the information is emission data or data not otherwise entitled to confidential treatment; or

(2) The Office of General Counsel issues a final determination, based on the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), stating that the information is no longer entitled to confidential treatment because of change in the applicable law or newly discovered or changed facts. Prior to making such final determination, EPA shall afford the business an opportunity to submit comments on pertinent issues in the manner described by §§ 2.204(e) and 2.205(b) of this chapter. If, after consideration of any timely comments submitted by the business, the Office of General Counsel makes a revised final determination that the information is not entitled to confidential treatment, the relevant agency official will notify the business in accordance with the procedures described in § 2.205(f)(2) of this chapter.
[89 FR 82450, Oct. 10, 2024]

### § 82.27 Incorporation by reference.

(a)(1) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this subpart with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at EPA and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact EPA at: U.S. EPA's Air and Radiation Docket; EPA West Building, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20460, 202-566-1742. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations or email fr.inspection@nara.gov.

(2) The IBR material may be obtained from the sources in the following paragraphs of this section or from one or more private resellers listed in this paragraph (a)(2). For material that is no longer commercially available, contact: U.S. EPA's Air and Radiation Docket; EPA West Building, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20460; a-and-rdocket@epa.gov.

(i) Accuris Standards Store, 321 Inverness Drive, South Englewood, CO 80112; phone: (800) 332-6077; website: https://accuristech.com.

(ii) American National Standards Institute (ANSI), 25 West 43rd Street, Fourth Floor, New York, NY 10036-7417; phone: (212) 642-4980; email: info@ansi.org; website: www.ansi.org.

(iii) GlobalSpec, 257 Fuller Road, Suite NFE 1100, Albany, NY 12203-3621; phone: (800) 261-2052; website: https://standards.globalspec.com.

(iv) Nimonik Document Center, 401 Roland Way, Suite 224, Oakland, CA 94624; phone (650) 591-7600; email: info@document-center.com; website: www.document-center.com.

(b) American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), Two Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016, phone: 800.843.2763, email: CustomerCare@asme.org; website: www.asme.org.

(1) ASME MFC-3M-2004, Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Orifice, Nozzle, and Venturi, issued August 15, 2005; IBR approved for § 82.25(d).

(2) ASME MFC-4M-1986 (Reaffirmed 2016), Measurement of Gas Flow by Turbine Meters, reaffirmed 2016, IBR approved for § 82.25(d).

(3) ASME MFC-5M-1985 (Reaffirmed 1994), Measurement of Liquid Flow in Closed Conduits Using Transit-Time Ultrasonic Flow Meters, copyright 1985; IBR approved for § 82.25(d).

(4) ASME MFC-6M-1998, Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Vortex Flowmeters, July 4, 1998; IBR approved for § 82.25(d).

(5) ASME MFC-7M-1987 (Reaffirmed 1992), Measurement of Gas Flow by Means of Critical Flow Venturi Nozzles, copyright 1987; IBR approved for § 82.25(d).

(6) ASME MFC-9M-1988 (Reaffirmed 2001), Measurement of Liquid Flow in Closed Conduits by Weighing Method, reaffirmed 2001; IBR approved for § 82.25(d).

(7) ASME MFC-11M-2006, Measurement of Fluid Flow by Means of Coriolis Mass Flowmeters, issued March 30, 2007; IBR approved for § 82.25(d).

(8) ASME MFC-14M-2003, Measurement of Fluid Flow Using Small Bore Precision Orifice Meters, issued April 17, 2003; IBR approved for § 82.25(d).

(c) ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428; phone: 610.832.9500; email: service@astm.org; website: www.astm.org/.

(1) ASTM D6348-03 Standard Test Method for Determination of Gaseous Compounds by Extractive Direct Interface Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectroscopy, approved October 1, 2003, IBR approved for § 82.25(d).

(2) [Reserved]

(d) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20460; phone: 202.272.0167; website: www.epa.gov.

(1) Approved Alternative Method 012: An Alternate Procedure for Stack Gas Volumetric Flow Rate Determination (Tracer Gas) (ALT-012), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Emission Measurement Center, May 23, 1994, IBR approved for § 82.25(d).

(2) Emissions Inventory Improvement Program, Volume II: Chapter 16, Methods for Estimating Air Emissions from Chemical Manufacturing Facilities, August 2007, Final, IBR approved for § 82.25(c).

(3) Protocol for Equipment Leak Emission Estimates, EPA-453/R-95-017, November 1995 (EPA-453/R-95-017), IBR approved for § 82.25(c) and (d).

(4) Protocol for Measuring Destruction or Removal Efficiency (DRE) of Fluorinated Greenhouse Gas Abatement Equipment in Electronics Manufacturing, Version 1, EPA-430-R-10-003, March 2010 (EPA 430-R-10-003), IBR approved for § 82.25 (d).

(5) Tracer Gas Protocol for the Determination of Volumetric Flow Rate Through the Ring Pipe of the Xact Multi-Metals Monitoring System, also known as Other Test Method 24 (Tracer Gas Protocol), Eli Lilly and Company Tippecanoe Laboratories, September 2006, IBR approved for § 82.25(d).
[89 FR 82450, Oct. 10, 2024]

### Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 82—Class I Controlled Substances

Class 1 controlled substances
ODP

A. Group I:

CFCl3-Trichlorofluoromethane (CFC-ll)
1.0

CF2 Cl2-Dichlorofifluoromethane (CFC-12)
1.0

C2 F3 Cl3-Trichlorotrifluoroethane (CFC-113)
0.8

C2 F4 Cl2-Dichlorotetrafluoroethane (CFC-114)
1.0

C2 F5 Cl-Monochloropentafluoroethane (CFC-115)
0.6

All isomers of the above chemicals

B. Group II:

CF2 ClBr-Bromochlorodifluoromethane (Halon-1211)
3.0

CF3 Br-Bromotrifluoromethane (Halon-1301)
10.0

C2 F4 Br2-Dibromotetrafluoroethane (Halon-2402)
6.0

All isomers of the above chemicals

C. Group III:

CF3 Cl-Chlorotrifluoromethane (CFC-13)
1.0

C2 FCl5-(CFC-111)
1.0

C2 F2 Cl4-(CFC-112)
1.0

C3 FCl7-(CFC-211)
1.0

C3 F2 Cl6-(CFC-212)
1.0

C3 F3 Cl5-(CFC-213)
1.0

C3 F4 Cl4-(CFC-214)
1.0

C3 F5 Cl3-(CFC-215)
1.0

C3 F6 Cl2-(CFC-216)
1.0

C3 F7 Cl-(CFC-217)
1.0

All isomers of the above chemicals

D. Group IV: CCl4-Carbon Tetrachloride
1.1

E. Group V:

C2 H3 Cl3-1,1,1 Trichloroethane (Methyl chloroform)
0.1

All isomers of the above chemical except 1,1,2-trichloroethane

F. Group VI: CH3 Br—Bromomethane (Methyl Bromide)
0.7

G. Group VII:

CHFBR2
1.00

CHF2 Br (HBFC-2201)
0.74

CH2 FBr
0.73

C2 HFBr4
0.3-0.8

C2 HF2 Br3
0.5-1.8

C2 HF3 Br2
0.4-1.6

C2 HF4 Br
0.7-1.2

C2 H2 FBr3
0.1-1.1

C2 H2 F2 Br2
0.2-1.5

C2 H2 F3 Br
0.7-1.6

C2 H2 FBr2
0.1-1.7

C2 H3 F2 Br
0.2-1.1

C2 H4 FBr
0.07-0.1

C3 HFBr6
0.3-1.5

C3 HF2 Br5
0.2-1.9

C3 HF3 Br4
0.3-1.8

C3 HF4 Br3
0.5-2.2

C3 HF5 Br2
0.9-2.0

C3 HF6 Br
0.7-3.3

C3 H2 FBR5
0.1-1.9

C3 H2 F2 BR4
0.2-2.1

C3 H2 F3 Br3
0.2-5.6

C3 H2 F4 Br2
0.3-7.5

C3 H2 F5 BR
0.9-14

C3 H3 FBR4
0.08-1.9

C3 H3 F2 Br3
0.1-3.1

C3 H3 F3 Br2
0.1-2.5

C3 H3 F4 Br
0.3-4.4

C3 H4 FBr3
0.03-0.3

C3 H4 F2 Br2
0.1-1.0

C3 H4 F3 Br
0.07-0.8

C3 H5 FBr2
0.04-0.4

C3 H5 F2 Br
0.07-0.8

C3 H6 FB
0.02-0.7

H. Group VIII:

CH2BrCl (Chlorobromomethane 0.12

[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 68 FR 42892, July 18, 2003]

### Appendix B to Subpart A of Part 82—Class II Controlled Substances 
a
b

Controlled substance
ODP

1. HCFC-21 (CHFCl2) Dichlorofluoromethane
0.04

2. HCFC-22 (CHF2Cl) Monochlorodifluoromethane
0.055

3. HCFC-31 (CH2FCl) Monochlorofluoromethane
0.02

4. HCFC-121 (C2HFCl4) Tetrachlorofluoroethane
0.01-0.04

5. HCFC-122 (C2HF2Cl3) Trichlorodifluoroethane
0.02-0.08

6. HCFC-123 (C2HF3Cl2) Dichlorotrifluoroethane
0.02

7. HCFC-124 (C2HF4Cl) Monochlorotetrafluoroethane
0.022

8. HCFC-131 (C2H2FCl3) Trichlorofluoroethane
0.007-0.05

9. HCFC-132 (C2H2F2Cl2) Dichlorodifluoroethane
0.008-0.05

10. HCFC-133 (C2H2F3Cl) Monochlorotrifluoroethane
0.02-0.06

11. HCFC-141 (C2H3FCl2) Dichlorofluoroethane
0.005-0.07

12. HCFC-141b (CH3CFCl2) Dichlorofluoroethane
0.11

13. HCFC-142 (C2H3F2Cl) Chlorodifluoroethane
0.008-0.07

14. HCFC-142b (CH3CF2Cl) Monochlorodifluoroethane
0.065

15. HCFC-151 (C2H4FCl) Chlorofluoroethane
0.003-0.005

16. HCFC-221 (C3HFCl6) Hexachlorofluoropropane
0.015-0.07

17. HCFC-222 (C3HF2Cl5) Pentachlorodifluoropropane
0.01-0.09

18. HCFC-223 (C3HF3Cl4) Tetrachlorotrifluoropropane
0.01-0.08

19. HCFC-224 (C3HF4Cl3) Trichlorotetrafluoropropane
0.01-0.09

20. HCFC-225 (C3HF5Cl2) Dichloropentafluoropropane
0.02-0.07

21. HCFC-225ca (CF3CF2CHCl2) Dichloropentafluoropropane
0.025

22. HCFC-225cb (CF2ClCF2CHClF) Dichloropentafluoropropane
0.033

23. HCFC-226 (C3HF6Cl) Monochlorohexafluoropropane
0.02-0.1

24. HCFC-231 (C3H2FCl5) Pentachlorofluoropropane
0.05-0.09

25. HCFC-232 (C3H2F2Cl4) Tetrachlorodifluoropropane
0.008-0.1

26. HCFC-233 (C3H2F3Cl3) Trichlorotrifluoropropane
0.007-0.23

27. HCFC-234 (C3H2F4Cl2) Dichlorotetrafluoropropane
0.01-0.28

28. HCFC-235 (C3H2F5Cl) Monochloropentafluoropropane
0.03-0.52

29. HCFC-241 (C3H3FCl4) Tetrachlorofluoropropane
0.004-0.09

30. HCFC-242 (C3H3F2Cl3) Trichlorodifluoropropane
0.005-0.13

31. HCFC-243 (C3H3F3Cl2) Dichlorotrifluoropropane
0.007-0.12

32. HCFC-244 (C3H3F4Cl) Monochlorotetrafluoropropane
0.009-0.14

33. HCFC-251 (C3H4FCl3) Monochlorotetrafluoropropane
0.001-0.01

34. HCFC-252 (C3H4F2Cl2) Dichlorodifluoropropane
0.005-0.04

35. HCFC-253 (C3H4F3Cl) Monochlorotrifluoropropane
0.003-0.03

36. HCFC-261 (C3H5FCl2) Dichlorofluoropropane
0.002-0.02

37. HCFC-262 (C3H5F2Cl) Monochlorodifluoropropane
0.002-0.02

38. HCFC-271 (C3H6FCl) Monochlorofluoropropane
0.001-0.03

a According to Annex C of the Montreal Protocol, &#x201C;Where a range of ODPs is indicated, the highest value in that range shall be used for the purposes of the Protocol. The ODPs listed as single value have been determined from calculations based on laboratory measurements. Those listed as a range are based on estimates and are less certain. The range pertains to an isomeric group. The upper value is the estimate of the ODP of the isomer with the highest ODP, and the lower value is the estimate of the ODP of the isomer with the lowest ODP.
b This table includes all isomers of the substances above, regardless of whether the isomer is explicitly listed on its own.

[79 FR 64288, Oct. 28, 2014]

### Appendix C to Subpart A of Part 82 [Reserved]

### Appendix D to Subpart A of Part 82—Harmonized Tariff Schedule Description of Products That May Contain Controlled Substances in Appendix A, Class I, Groups I and II

This appendix is based on information provided by the Ozone Secretariat of the United Nations Ozone Environment Programme.**
 The Appendix lists available U.S. harmonized tariff schedule codes identifying headings and subheadings for Annex D products that may contain controlled substances.

** &#x201C;A Note Regarding the Harmonized System Code Numbers for the Products Listed in Annex D.&#x201D; Adopted by Decision IV/15 paragraph 3, of the Fourth Meeting of the Parties in Copenhagen, 23-25 November, 1992.

The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States uses an enumeration system to identify products imported and exported to and from the U.S. This system relies on a four digit heading, a four digit subheading and additional two digit statistical suffix to characterize products. The United States uses the suffix for its own statistical records and analyses. This Appendix lists only headings and subheadings.

While some can be readily associated with harmonized system codes, many products cannot be tied to HS classifications unless their exact composition and the presentation are known. It should be noted that the specified HS classifications represent the most likely headings and subheadings which may contain substances controlled by the Montreal Protocol. The codes given should only be used as a starting point; further verfication is needed to ascertain whether or not the products actually contain controlled substances.
Category 1. Automobile and Truck Air Conditioning Units (whether incorporated in vehicles or not)

There are no separate code numbers for air conditioning units specially used in automobiles and trucks. Although a code has been proposed for car air conditioners, it is not yet officially listed in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (see category 2). The following codes apply to the vehicles potentially containing air conditioning units.

Heading/Subheading

Article Description

8701.(10, 20, 30, 90)***
Tractors.

8702
Public-transport type passenger motor vehicles.

8702.10
With compression-ignition internal-combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel).

8702.90
Other.

8703
Motor cars and other motor vehicles principally designed for the transport of persons (other than those of heading 8702), including station wagons and racing cars.

8703.10
Vehicles specially designed for traveling on snow; golf carts and similar vehicles; includes subheading 10.10 and 10.50.

8703.(21, 22, 23, 24)
Other vehicles, with spark-ignition internal combustion reciprocating engines.

8703.(31, 32, 33, 90)
Other vehicles, with compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel).

8704
Motor vehicles for the transport of goods.

8704.10.(10, 50)
Dumpers designed for off-highway use.

8704.(21, 22, 23)
Other, with compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel).

8704.(31, 32, 90)
Other, with compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine.

8705
Special purpose motor vehicles, other than those principally designed for the transport of persons or goods (for example, wreckers, mobile cranes, fire fighting vehicles, concrete mixers, road sweepers, spraying vehicles, mobile workshops, mobile radiological units).

8705.10
Crane lorries.

8705.20
Mobile drilling derricks.

8705.30
Fire fighting vehicles.

8705.90
Other.

***At this time vehicle air conditioning units are considered components of vehicles or are classified under the general category for air conditioning and refrigeration equipment. Vehicles containing air conditioners are therefore considered products containing controlled substances.

Category 2. Domestic and Commercial Refrigeration and Air Conditioning/Heat Pump Equipment

Domestic and commercial air conditioning and refrigeration equipment fall primarily under headings 8415 and 8418.

Heading/Subheading

Article Description

8415
Air conditioning machines, comprising a motor-driven fan and elements for changing the temperature and humidity, including those machines in which the humidity cannot be separately regulated.

8415.20
Proposed code for air conditioning of a kind used for persons, in motor vehicles.

8415.10.00
A/C window or wall types, self-contained.

8415.81.00
Other, except parts, incorporating a refrigerating unit and a valve for reversal of the cooling/heat cycle.

8415.82.00
Other, incorporating a refrigerating unit—

Self-contained machines and remote condenser type air conditioners (not for year-round use).

Year-round units (for heating and cooling).

Air Conditioning evaporator coils.

Dehumidifiers.

Other air conditioning machines incorporating a refrigerating unit.

8415.83
Automotive air conditioners.

8418
Refrigerators, freezers and other refrigerating or freezing equipment, electric or other; heat pumps, other than air conditioning machines of heading 8415; parts thereof.

8418.10.00
Combined refrigerator-freezers, fitted with separate external doors.

8418.21.00
Refrigerators, household type, Compression type.

8418.22.00
Absorption type, electrical.

8418.29.00
Other.

8418.30.00
Freezers of the chest type.

8418.40
Freezers of the upright type.

8418.50.0040
Other refrigerating or freezing chests, cabinets, display counters, showcases and similar refrigerating or freezing furniture.

8418.61.00
Other refrigerating or freezing equipment; heat pumps.

8418.69
Other—

Icemaking machines.

Drinking water coolers, self-contained.

Soda fountain and beer dispensing equipment.

Centrifugal liquid chilling refrigerating units.

Absorption liquid chilling units.

Reciprocating liquid chilling units.

Other refrigerating or freezing equipment (household or other).

8479.89.10
Dehumidifiers (other than those under 8415 or 8424 classified as &#x201C;machines and mechanical appliances having individual functions, not specified or included elsewhere&#x201D;).

Category 3. Aerosol Products

An array of different products use controlled substances as aerosols and in aerosol applications. Not all aerosol applications use controlled substances, however. The codes given below represent the most likely classifications for products containing controlled substances. The product codes listed include ****
:

**** Other categories of products that may contain controlled substances are listed below. EPA is currently working to match them with appropriate codes. They include: coatings and electronic equipment (e.g., electrical motors), coatings or cleaning fluids for aircraft maintenance, mold release agents (e.g. for production of plastic or elastomeric materials), water and oil repellant (potentially under HS 3402), spray undercoats (potentially under &#x201C;paints and varnishes&#x201D;), spot removers, brake cleaners, safety sprays (e.g., mace cans), animal repellant, noise horns (e.g., for use on boats), weld inspection developers, freezants, gum removers, intruder alarms, tire inflators, dusters (for electronic and non-electronic applications), spray shoe polish, and suede protectors.
&#x2022; varnishes

&#x2022; perfumes

&#x2022; preparations for use on hair

&#x2022; preparations for oral and dental hygiene

&#x2022; shaving preparations

&#x2022; personal deodorants, bath preparations

&#x2022; prepared room deodorizers

&#x2022; soaps

&#x2022; lubricants

&#x2022; polishes and creams

&#x2022; explosives

&#x2022; insecticides, fungicides, herbicides, disinfectants

&#x2022; arms and ammunition

&#x2022; household products such as footwear or leather polishes

&#x2022; other miscellaneous products

Heading/Subheading

Article Description

3208
Paints and varnishes ***** (including enamels and lacquers) based on synthetic polymers of chemically modified natural polymers, dispersed or dissolved in a non-aqueous medium.

3208.10
Based on polyesters.

3208.20
Based on acrylic or vinyl polymers.

3208.90
Other.

3209
Paints and varnishes (including enamels and lacquers) based on synthetic polymers or chemically modified natural polymers, dispersed or dissolved in an aqueous medium.

3209.10
Based on acrylic or vinyl polymers.

3209.90
Other.

3210.00
Other paints and varnishes (including enamels, lacquers and distempers) and prepared water pigments of a kind used for finishing leather.

3212.90
Dyes and other coloring matter put up in forms or packings for retail sale.

3303.00
Perfumes and toilet waters.

3304.30
Manicure or pedicure preparations.

3305.10
Shampoos.

3305.20
Preparations for permanent waving or straightening.

3305.30
Hair lacquers.

3305.90
Other hair preparations.

3306.10
Dentrifices.

3306.90
Other dental (this may include breath sprays).

3307.10
Pre-shave, shaving or after-shave preparations.

3307.20
Personal deodorants and antiperspirants.

3307.30
Perfumed bath salts and other bath preparations.

3307.49
Other (this may include preparations for perfuming or deodorizing rooms, including odoriferous preparations used during religious rites, whether or not perfumed or having disinfectant properties).

3307.90
Other (this may include depilatory products and other perfumery, cosmetic or toilet preparations, not elsewhere specified or included)

3403
Lubricating preparations (including cutting-oil preparations, bolt or nut release preparations, anti-rust or anti-corrosion preparations and mould release preparations, based on lubricants), and preparations of a kind used for the oil or grease treatment of textile materials, leather, fur skins or other materials, but excluding preparations containing, as basic constituents, 70 percent or more by weight of petroleum oils or of oils obtained from bituminous minerals.

3402
Organic surface-active agents (other than soap); surface-active preparations, washing preparations and cleaning operations, whether or not containing soap, other than those of 3401.

3402.20
Preparations put up for retail sale.

3402.19
Other preparations containing petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals.

3403
Lubricating preparations consisting of mixtures containing silicone greases or oils, as the case may be.

2710.00
Preparations not elsewhere specified or included, containing by weight 70 percent or more of petroleum oils or of oils obtained from bituminous minerals, these oils being the basic constituents of the preparations.

3403.11
Lubricants containing petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals used for preparations from the treatment of textile materials, leather, fur skins or other materials.

3403.19
Other preparations containing petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals.

3405
Polishes and creams, for footwear, furniture, floors, coachwork, glass or metal, scouring pastes and powders and similar preparations excluding waxes of heading 3404.

3405.10
Polishes and creams for footwear or leather.

3405.20
Polishes for wooden furniture, floors or other woodwork.

36
Explosives.

3808
Insecticides, rodenticides, fungicides, herbicides, anti-sprouting products and plant-growth regulators, disinfectants and similar products, put up in forms or packings for retail sale or as preparations or articles (for example, sulphur-treated bands, wicks and candles, and fly papers).

3808.10
Insecticides.

3808.20
Fungicides.

3808.30
Herbicides, anti-sprouting products and plant growth regulators.

3808.40
Disinfectants.

3808.90
Other insecticides, fungicides.

3809.10
Finishing agents, dye carriers to accelerate the dyeing or fixing of dye-stuffs and other products and preparations (for example, dressings and mordants) of a kind used in the textile, paper, leather or like industries, not elsewhere specified or included, with a basis of amylaceous substances.

3814
Organic composite solvents and thinners (not elsewhere specified or included) and the prepared paint or varnish removers.

3910
Silicones in primary forms.

9304
Other arms (for example, spring, air or gas guns and pistols, truncheons), excluding those of heading No. 93.07. Thus, aerosol spray cans containing tear gas may be classified under this subheading.

0404.90
Products consisting of natural milk constituents, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, not elsewhere specified or included.

1517.90
Edible mixtures or preparations of animal or vegetable fats or oils or of fractions of different fats or oils of this chapter, other than edible fats or oils or their fractions of heading No. 15.16.

2106.90
Food preparations not elsewhere specified or included.

***** Although paints do not generally use contain controlled substances, some varnishes use CFC 113 and 1,1,1,trichlorethane as solvents.

Category 4. Portable Fire Extinguishers

Heading/Subheading

Article Description

8424
Mechanical appliances (whether or not hand operated) for projecting, dispersing, or spraying liquids or powders; fire extinguishers whether or not charged, spray guns and similar appliances; steam or sand blasting machines and similar jet projecting machines.

8424.10
Fire extinguishers, whether or not charged.

Category 5. Insulation Boards, Panels and Pipe Covers

These goods have to be classified according to their composition and presentation. For example, if the insulation materials are made of polyurethane, polystyrene, polyolefin and phenolic plastics, then they may be classified Chapter 39, for &#x201C;Plastics and articles thereof&#x201D;. The exact description of the products at issue is necessary before a classification can be given. ******

****** This category may include insulating board for building panels and windows and doors. It also includes rigid appliance insulation for pipes, tanks, trucks, trailers, containers, train cars & ships, refrigerators, freezers, beverage vending machines, bulk beverage dispensers, water coolers and heaters and ice machines.

Heading/Subheading

Article Description

3917.21 to 3917.39
Tubes, pipes and hoses of plastics.

3920.10 to 3920.99
Plates, sheets, film, foil and strip made of plastics, non-cellular and not reinforced, laminated, supported or similarly combined with other materials.

3921.11 to 3921.90
Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, made of plastics.

3925.90
Builders' ware made of plastics, not elsewhere specified or included.

3926.90
Articles made of plastics, not elsewhere specified or included.

Category 6. Pre-Polymers

According to the Explanatory Notes to the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System, &#x201C;prepolymers are products which are characterized by some repetition of monomer units although they may contain unreacted monomers. Prepolymers are not normally used as such but are intended to be transformed into higher molecular weight polymers by further polymerization. Therefore the term does not cover finished products, such as di-isobutylenes or mixed polyethylene glycols with very low molecular weight. Examples are epoxides based with epichlorohydrin, and polymeric isocyanates.&#x201D;

Heading/Subheading

Article Description

3901
Pre-polymers based on ethylene (in primary forms).

3902
Pre-polymers based on propylene or other olefins (in primary forms).

3903, 3907, 3909
Pre-polymers based on styrene (in primary forms), epoxide and phenols.

### Appendix E to Subpart A of Part 82—Article 5 Parties

Parties operating under Article 5 of the Montreal Protocol as of March 26, 2014 are listed below. An updated list can be located at: http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/parties_under_article5_para1.php.

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua & Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Congo (Democratic Republic of), Cook Islands, Cost Rica, C&#xF4;te d'Ivoire, Cuba, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Gambia, Georgia, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kiribati, Korea (Democratic People's Republic of), Korea (Republic of), Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao (People's Democratic Republic), Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federal States of), Moldova (Republic of), Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Niue, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent & the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, South Sudan*, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tanzania (United Republic of), Thailand, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
* temporarily categorized as Article 5 pending submission of ODS consumption data

[79 FR 16687, Mar. 26, 2014]

### Appendix F to Subpart A of Part 82—Listing of Ozone-Depleting Chemicals

Controlled substance
ODP
AT L
CLP
BLP

A. Class I:

1. Group I:

CFCl3-Trichlorofluoromethane (CFC-11)
1.0
60.0
1.0
0.00

CF2 Cl2-Dichlorodifluoromethane (CFC-12)
1.0
120.0
1.5
0.00

C2 F3 Cl3-Trichlorotrifluoroethane (CFC-113)
0.8
90.0
1.11
0.00

C2 F4 Cl2-Dichlorotetrafluoroethane (CFC-114)
1.0
200.00
1.8
0.00

C2 F5 Cl-Monochloropentafluoroethane (CFC-115)
0.6
400.0
2.0
0.00

All isomers of the above chemicals
[Reserved]

2. Group II:

CF2 ClBr-Bromochlorodifluoromethane (Halon-1211)
3.0
12
0.06
0.13

&#x2212;18
&#x2212;.08
&#x2212;.03

CF3 Br-Bromotrifluoromethane (Halon-1301)
10.0
72
0.00
1.00

&#x2212;107

C2 F4 Br2-Dibromotetrafluoroethane (Halon-2402)
6.0
23
0.00
0.30

&#x2212;28

&#x2212;.37

All isomers of the above chemicals
[Reserved]

3. Group III:

CF3 Cl-Chlorotrifluoromethane (CFC-13)
1.0
120
0.88
0.00

&#x2212;250
&#x2212;1.83

C2 FCl5- (CFC-111)
1.0
60
1.04
0.00

&#x2212;90
&#x2212;1.56

C2 F2 Cl4- (CFC-112)
1.0
60
0.90
0.00

&#x2212;90
&#x2212;1.35

C3 FCl7- (CFC-211)
1.0
100
1.76
0.00

&#x2212;500
&#x2212;8.81

C3 F2 Cl6- (CFC-212)
1.0
100
1.60
0.00

&#x2212;500
&#x2212;7.98

C3 F3 Cl5- (CFC-213)
1.0
100
1.41
0.00

&#x2212;500
&#x2212;7.06

C3 F4 Cl4- (CFC-214)
1.0
100
1.20
0.00

&#x2212;500
&#x2212;6.01

C3 F5 Cl3 -(CFC-215)
1.0
100
0.96
0.00

&#x2212;500
&#x2212;4.82

C3 F6 Cl2- (CFC-216)
1.0
100
0.69
0.00

&#x2212;500
&#x2212;3.45

C3 F7 Cl- (CFC-217)
1.0
100
0.37
0.00

&#x2212;500
&#x2212;1.87

All isomers of the above chemicals
[Reserved]

4. Group IV:

CCl4 -Carbon Tetrachloride
1.1
50.0
1.0
0.00

5. Group V:

C2 H3 Cl3-1,1,1 Trichloroethane (Methyl chloroform)
0.1
6.3
0.11
0.00

All isomers of the above chemical except 1,1,2-trichloroethane
[Reserved]

6. Group VI:

CH3Br-Bromomethane (Methyl Bromide)
0.7

[Reserved]

7. Group VII:

CHFBr2-
1.00

[Reserved]

CHF2 Br-(HBFC-22B1)
0.74

[Reserved]

CH2 FBr
0.73

[Reserved]

C2 HFBr4
0.3-0.8

[Reserved]

C2 HF2 Br3
0.5-1.8

[Reserved]

C2 HF3 Br2
0.4-16

[Reserved]

C2 HF4 Br
0.7-1.2

[Reserved]

C2 H2 FBr3
0.1-1.1

[Reserved]

C2 H2 F2 Br2
0.2-1.5

[Reserved]

C2 H2 F3 Br
0.7-1.6

[Reserved]

C2 H3 FBr2
0.1-1.7

[Reserved]

C2 H3 F2 Br
0.2-1.1

[Reserved]

C2 H4 FBr
0.07-0.1

[Reserved]

C3 HFBr6
0.3-1.5

[Reserved]

C3 HF2 Br5
0.2-1.9

[Reserved]

C3 HF3 Br4
0.3-1.8

[Reserved]

C3 HF4 Br3
0.5-2.2

[Reserved]

C3 HF5 Br2
0.9-2.0

[Reserved]

C3 HF6 Br
0.7-3.3

[Reserved]

C3 H2 FBr5
0.1-1.9

[Reserved]

C3 H2 F2 Br4
0.2-2.1

[Reserved]

C3 H2 F3 Br3
0.2-5.6

[Reserved]

C3 H2 F4 Br2
0.3-7.5

[Reserved]

C3 H2 F5 Br
0.9-1.4

[Reserved]

C3 H3 FBR4
0.08-1.9

[Reserved]

C3 H3 F2 Br3
0.1-3.1

[Reserved]

C3 H3 F3 Br2
0.1-2.5

[Reserved]

C3 H3 F4 Br
0.3-4.4

[Reserved]

C3 H4 FBr3
0.03-0.3

[Reserved]

C3 H4 F2 Br2
0.1-1.0

[Reserved]

C3 H4 F3 Br
0.07-0.8

[Reserved]

C3 H5 FBr2
0.04-0.4

[Reserved]

C3 H5 F2 Br
0.07-0.8

[Reserved]

C3 H6 FB
0.02-0.7

[Reserved]

8. Group VIII:

CH2 BrCl (Chlorobromomethane)
0.12

[Reserved]

B. Class II:

CHFCl2-Dichlorofluoromethane (HCFC-21)
[Reserved]
2.1
0.03
0.00

CHF2 Cl-Chlorodifluoromethane (HCFC-22)
0.05
15.3
0.14
0.00

CH2 FCl-Chlorofluoromethane (HCFC-31)
[Reserved]
1.44
0.02
0.00

C2 HFCl4- (HCFC-121)
[Reserved]
0.6
0.01
0.00

C2 HF2 Cl3- (HCFC-122)
[Reserved]
1.4
0.02
0.00

C2 HF3 Cl2- (HCFC-123)
0.02
1.6
0.016
0.00

C2 HF4 Cl- (HCFC-124)
0.02
6.6
0.04
0.00

C2 H2 FCl3- (HCFC-131)
[Reserved]
4.0
0.06
0.00

C2 H2 F2 Cl2- (HCFC-132b)
[Reserved]
4.2
0.05
0.00

C2 H2 F3 Cl- (HCFC-133a)
[Reserved]
4.8
0.03
0.00

C2 H3 FCl2- (HCFC-141b)
0.12
7.8
0.10
0.00

C2 H3 F2 Cl- (HCFC-142b)
0.06
19.1
0.14
0.00

C3 HFCl6- (HCFC-221)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 HF2 Cl5- (HCFC-222)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 HF3 Cl4- (HCFC-223)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 HF4 Cl3- (HCFC-224)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 HF5 Cl2- (HCFC-225ca)
[Reserved]
1.5
0.01
0.00

&#x2212;1.7

(HCFC-225cb)
[Reserved]
5.1
0.04
0.00

C3 HF6 Cl- (HCFC-226)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 H2 FCl5- (HCFC-231)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 H2 F2 4- (HCFC-232)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 H2 F3 Cl3- (HCFC-233)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 H2 F4 Cl2- (HCFC-234)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 H2 F5 Cl- (HCFC-235)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 H3 FCl4- (HCFC-241)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 H3 F2 Cl3- (HCFC-242)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 H3 F3 Cl2- (HCFC-243)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 H3 F4 Cl- (HCFC-244)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 H4 FCl3- (HCFC-251)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 H4 F2 Cl2- (HCFC-252)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 H4 F3 Cl- (HCFC-253)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 H5 FCl2- (HCFC-261)
[Reserved]

0.00

C2 H5 F2 Cl- (HCFC-262)
[Reserved]

0.00

C3 H6 FCl- (HCFC-271)
[Reserved]

0.00

All isomers of the above chemicals
[Reserved]

[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 68 FR 42894, July 18, 2003]

### Appendix G to Subpart A of Part 82—UNEP Recommendations for Conditions Applied to Exemption for Essential Laboratory and Analytical Uses

1. Essential laboratory and analytical uses are identified at this time to include equipment calibration; use as extraction solvents, diluents, or carriers for chemical analysis; biochemical research; inert solvents for chemical reactions, as a carrier or laboratory chemical and other critical analytical and laboratory purposes. Pursuant to Decision XI/15 of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol, effective January 1, 2002 the following uses of class I controlled substances are not considered essential under the global laboratory exemption:

a. Testing of oil and grease and total petroleum hydrocarbons in water;

b. Testing of tar in road-paving materials; and

c. Forensic finger printing.

Production for essential laboratory and analytical purposes is authorized provided that these laboratory and analytical chemicals shall contain only controlled substances manufactured to the following purities:
CTC (reagent grade)—99.5

1,1,1,-trichloroethane—99.5

CFC-11—99.5

CFC-13—99.5

CFC-12—99.5

CFC-113—99.5

CFC-114—99.5

Other w/ Boiling P>20 degrees C—99.5

Other w/ Boiling P<20 degrees C—99.0

d. Testing of organic matter in coal.

2. These pure, controlled substances can be subsequently mixed by manufacturers, agents or distributors with other chemicals controlled or not controlled by the Montreal Protocol as is customary for laboratory and analytical uses.

3. These high purity substances and mixtures containing controlled substances shall be supplied only in re-closable containers or high pressure cylinders smaller than three litres or in 10 millilitre or smaller glass ampoules, marked clearly as substances that deplete the ozone layer, restricted to laboratory use and analytical purposes and specifying that used or surplus substances should be collected and recycled, if practical. The material should be destroyed if recycling is not practical.

4. Parties shall annually report for each controlled substance produced: the purity; the quantity; the application, specific test standard, or procedure requiring its uses; and the status of efforts to eliminate its use in each application. Parties shall also submit copies of published instructions, standards, specifications, and regulations requiring the use of the controlled substance.

5. Pursuant to Decision XVIII/15 of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol, methyl bromide is exempted for the following approved essential laboratory and analytical purposes listed in following items (a) through (d). Use of methyl bromide for field trials is not an approved use under the global laboratory and analytical use exemption. The provisions of Appendix G, paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4), regarding purity, mixing, container, and reporting requirements for other exempt ODSs, also apply to the use of methyl bromide under this exemption.

a. Methyl bromide is exempted as an approved essential laboratory and analytical use as a reference or standard to calibrate equipment which uses methyl bromide, to monitor methyl bromide emission levels, or to determine methyl bromide residue levels in goods, plants and commodities;

b. Methyl bromide is exempted as an approved essential laboratory and analytical when used in laboratory toxicological studies;

c. Methyl bromide is exempted as an approved essential laboratory and analytical use to compare the efficacy of methyl bromide and its alternatives inside a laboratory; and

d. Methyl bromide is exempted as an approved essential laboratory and analytical use as a laboratory agent which is destroyed in a chemical reaction in the manner of feedstock.
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 67 FR 6362, Feb. 11, 2002; 72 FR 73269, Dec. 27, 2007]

### Appendix H to Subpart A of Part 82—Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 Phaseout Schedule for Production of Ozone-Depleting Substances

Date
Carbon tetrachloride (percent)
Methyl chloroform (percent)
Other class substances (percent)

1994
70
85
65

1995
15
70
50

1996
15
50
40

1997
15
50
15

1998
15
50
15

1999
15
50
15

2000

20

2001

20

### Appendix I to Subpart A of Part 82—Global Warming Potentials (Mass Basis), Referenced to the Absolute GWP for the Adopted Carbon Cycle Model CO2 Decay Response and Future CO2 Atmospheric Concentrations Held Constant at Current Levels. (Only Direct Effects Are Considered.)

Species (chemical)
Chemical formula
Global warming potential (time horizon)

20 years
100 years
500 years

CFC-11
CFCl3
5000
4000
1400

CFC-12
CF2 Cl2
7900
8500
4200

CFC-13
CClF3
8100
11700
13600

CFC-113
C2 F3 Cl3
5000
5000
2300

CFC-114
C2 F4 Cl2
6900
9300
8300

CFC-115
C2 F5 Cl
6200
9300
13000

H-1301
CF3 Br
6200
5600
2200

Carbon Tet
CCl4
2000
1400
500

Methyl Chl
CH3 CCl3
360
110
35

HCFC-22
CF2 HCl
4300
1700
520

HCFC-141b
C2 FH3 Cl2
1800
630
200

HCFC-142b
C2 F2 H3 Cl
4200
2000
630

HCFC-123
C2 F3 HCl2
300
93
29

HCFC-124
C2 F4 HCl
1500
480
150

HCFC-225ca
C3 F5 HCl2
550
170
52

HCFC-225cb
C3 F5 HCl2
1700
530
170

AUnited Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), February 1995, Scientific Assessment of Ozone Depletion: 1994, Chapter 13, &#x201C;Ozone Depleting Potentials, Global Warming Potentials and Future Chlorine/Bromine Loading,&#x201D; and do not reflect review of scientific documents published after that date.

[61 FR 1285, Jan. 19, 1996]

### Appendix J to Subpart A of Part 82—Parties to the Montreal Protocol Classied Under Article 5(1) That Have Banned the Import of Controlled Products That Rely on Class I Controlled Substances for Their Continuing Functioning [Reserved]

### Appendix K to Subpart A of Part 82—Commodity Codes From the Harmonized Tariff Schedule for Controlled Substances and Used Controlled Substances

Description of commodity or chemical
Commodity code from harmonized tariff schedule

Class II:

HCFC-22 (Chlorodifluoromethane)
2903.71.0000

HCFC-123 (Dichlorotrifluoroethane)
2903.72.0020

HCFC-124 (Monochlorotetrafluoroethane)
2903.79.1000

HCFC-141b (Dichlorofluoroethane)
2903.73.0000

HCFC-142b (Chlorodifluoroethane)
2903.74.0000

HCFC-225ca, HCFC-225cb (Dichloropentafluoropropanes)
2903.75.0000

HCFC-21, HCFC-31, HCFC-133, and other HCFCs
2903.79.9070

HCFC Mixtures (R-401A, R-402A, etc.)
3824.74.0000

Class I:

CFC-11 (Trichlorofluoromethane)
2903.77.0010

CFC-12 (Dichlorodifluoromethane)
2903.77.0050

CFC-113 (Trichlorotrifluoroethane)
2903.77.0020

CFC-114 (Dichlorotetrafluoroethane)
2903.77.0030

CFC-115 (Monochloropentafluoroethane)
2903.77.0040

CFC-13, CFC-111, CFC-112, CFC-211, CFC-212, CFC-213, CFC-214, CFC-215, CFC-216, CFC-217, and other CFCs
2903.77.0080

CFC Mixtures (R-500, R-502, etc.)
3824.71.0100

Carbon Tetrachloride
2903.14.0000

Halon 1301 (Bromotrifluoromethane)
2903.76.0010

Halon, other
2903.76.0050

Methyl Bromide
2903.39.1520

Methyl Chloroform
2903.19.6010

[85 FR 15299, Mar. 17, 2020]

### Appendix L to Subpart A of Part 82—Approved Critical Uses and Limiting Critical Conditions for Those Uses

Column A
Column B
Column C

Approved Critical Uses
Approved Critical User, Location of Use
Limiting Critical Conditionsthat exist, or that the approved critical user reasonably expects could arise without methyl bromide fumigation:

PRE-PLANT USES

Strawberry Fruit
California growers in 2015 and 2016.
Moderate to severe black root rot or crown rotModerate to severe yellow or purple nutsedge infestation

Moderate to severe nematode infestationLocal township limits prohibiting 1,3-dichloropropene

POST-HARVEST USES

Dry Cured Pork Products
Members of the National Country Ham Association and the American Association of Meat Processors, Nahunta Pork Center (North Carolina), and Gwaltney of Smithfield Inc.
Red legged ham beetle infestationCheese/ham skipper infestationDermestid beetle infestationHam mite infestation

[80 FR 61992, Oct. 15, 2015]

============================================================
SOURCE: 40 CFR Part 84 — Phasedown of Hydrofluorocarbons (AIM Act)
URL: https://www.ecfr.gov/api/versioner/v1/full/2026-04-07/title-40.xml?part=84&subpart=A
FETCHED: 2026-04-09T05:53:00.029Z
============================================================

### Subpart A—Production and Consumption Controls

### § 84.1 Purpose and scope.

(a) The purpose of the regulations in this subpart is to implement certain provisions of the American Innovation and Manufacturing Act of 2020 (AIM Act), enacted as part of Public Law 116-260. In particular, the AIM Act imposes limits on the production and consumption of certain regulated substances, according to a specified schedule, which are addressed by this subpart. (b) This subpart applies to any person that produces, transforms, destroys, imports, exports, sells or distributes, offers for sale or distribution, recycles for fire suppression, or reclaims a regulated substance and to end users in the six applications listed in subsection (e)(4)(B)(iv) of the AIM Act.
[86 FR 55206, Oct. 5, 2021]

### § 84.3 Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the term:

Administrator means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or his or her authorized representative.

Allowance means a limited authorization for the production or consumption of a regulated substance established under subsection (e) of section 103 in Division S, Innovation for the Environment, of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Pub. L. 116-260) (the AIM Act). An allowance allocated under subsection (e) of section 103 in Division S of the AIM Act does not constitute a property right.

Application-specific allowance means a limited authorization granted in accordance with subsection (e)(4)(B)(iv) of the AIM Act for the production or import of a regulated substance for use in the specifically identified applications that are listed in that subsection and in accordance with the restrictions contained at § 84.5(c). An application-specific allowance does not constitute a property right.

Batch means a vessel, container, or cylinder from which a producer, importer, reclaimer, recycler, or repackager transfers regulated substances directly for sale or distribution, or for repackaging for sale or distribution; or a population of small vessels, containers, or cylinders with the same nominal composition that a producer, importer, reclaimer, recycler, or repackager directly offers for sale or distribution.

Berth means to moor a ship in its allotted place at a wharf or dock.

Bulk means a regulated substance of any amount that is in a container for the transportation or storage of that substance such as cylinders, drums, ISO tanks, and small cans. A regulated substance that must first be transferred from a container to another container, vessel, or piece of equipment in order to realize its intended use is a bulk substance. A regulated substance contained in a manufactured product such as an appliance, an aerosol can, or a foam is not a bulk substance.

Certificate of analysis means a document that certifies the contents of an import meets the nominal composition following sampling and testing requirements prescribed in § 84.5(i)(3) for the appropriate regulated substance or blend of regulated substances.

Chemical vapor deposition chamber cleaning means, in the context of semiconductor manufacturing, a process type in which chambers used for depositing thin films are cleaned periodically using plasma-generated fluorine atoms and other reactive fluorine-containing fragments.

Commonly owned: An entity that is related to another entity by a shared individual natural person(s), where either:

(1) There is at least a single individual that owns 30 percent or more of each entity; or

(2) Individuals that share a direct family relationship (parent, child, sibling, or spouse) own a majority of each entity.

Confer means to shift unexpended application-specific allowances obtained in accordance with subsection (e)(4)(B)(iv) of the AIM Act from the end user allocated such allowances to one or more entities in the supply chain for the production or import of a regulated substance for use by the end user.

Consumption, with respect to a regulated substance, means production plus imports minus exports.

Consumption allowances means a limited authorization to produce and import regulated substances; however, consumption allowances may be used to produce regulated substances only in conjunction with production allowances. A person's consumption allowances are the total of the allowances obtained under § 84.11 or § 84.15 as may be modified under §§ 84.17 (availability of additional consumption allowances), 84.19 (transfer of allowances), and 84.35 (administrative consequences).

Defense spray means an aerosol-based spray used for self-defense, including pepper spray and animal sprays, and containing the irritant capsaicin and related capsaicinoids (derived from oleoresin capsicum), an emulsifier, and an aerosol propellant.

Destruction means the expiration of a regulated substance to the destruction and removal efficiency actually achieved. Such destruction might result in a commercially useful end product, but such usefulness would be secondary to the act of destruction.

Etching means, in the context of semiconductor manufacturing, a process type that uses plasma-generated fluorine atoms and other reactive fluorine-containing fragments that chemically react with exposed thin films (e.g., dielectric, metals) or substrate (e.g., silicon) to selectively remove portions of material. This includes semiconductor production processes using fluorinated GHG reagents to clean wafers.

Exchange value means the value assigned to a regulated substance in accordance with AIM Act subsections (c) and (e), as applicable, and as provided in appendix A to this part.

Exchange value equivalent (EVe) means the exchange value-weighted amount of a regulated substance obtained by multiplying the mass of a regulated substance by the exchange value of that substance.

Expend means to subtract the number of allowances required for the production or import of regulated substances under this part from a person's unexpended allowances.

Export means the transport from inside the United States or its territories to persons outside the United States or its territories, excluding United States military bases and ships for onboard use.

Exporter means the person who contracts to sell regulated substances for export or transfers regulated substances to his affiliate in another country.

Facility means one or more production lines at the same location owned by or under common control of the same person.

Final customer means the last person to purchase a bulk regulated substance before its intended use. Final customer includes, but is not limited to, air conditioning contractors in the residential air conditioning market, foam systems houses, aerosol fillers, semiconductor manufacturers, air conditioning and refrigeration equipment manufacturers that ship equipment pre-charged, and fire extinguisher manufacturers.

Fire suppressant recycler means, generally, an entity that collects used HFC fire suppressants and directly resells those collected and aggregated HFCs—with or without any additional reprocessing—to another entity for reuse as a fire suppressant (also referred to as a &#x201C;recycler for fire suppression&#x201D; in this subpart). An entity that collects and aggregates used HFC fire suppressants for distribution to another entity for reprocessing before being sold for reuse as a fire suppressant would not be a fire suppressant recycler. An entity that resells HFC fire suppressants that have already been reprocessed for use as a fire suppressant by another entity would not be a fire suppressant recycler.

Foreign country means an entity that is recognized as a sovereign nation or country other than the United States of America.

Healthcare system need means circumstances where an increase in demand for MDIs used to treat asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and other respiratory diseases may occur because of a change in market conditions that otherwise would not be included in calculated rates of growth.

Heel means the amount of a regulated substance that remains in a container after the container is discharged or offloaded (that is no more than 10 percent of the volume of the container).

Import means to land on, bring into, or introduce into, or attempt to land on, bring into, or introduce into, any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, regardless of whether that landing, bringing, or introduction constitutes an importation within the meaning of the customs laws of the United States. Offloading used regulated substances recovered from equipment aboard a marine vessel, aircraft, or other aerospace vehicle during servicing is not considered an import.

Importer means any person who imports a regulated substance into the United States. &#x201C;Importer&#x201D; includes the person primarily liable for the payment of any duties on the merchandise or an authorized agent acting on his or her behalf. The term also includes:

(1) The consignee;

(2) The importer of record;

(3) The actual owner; or

(4) The transferee, if the right to draw merchandise in a bonded warehouse has been transferred.

Individual shipment means the kilograms of a regulated substance for which a person may make one (1) U.S. Customs entry, as identified in the non-objection notice obtained from the relevant Agency official in accordance with § 84.25.

Laboratory testing means the use of the sampling and testing methodology prescribed in § 84.5(i)(3) by a laboratory that is accredited to ISO 17025 in accordance with ISO/IEC 17025:2017(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 84.37), or certified under the AHRI Refrigerant Testing Laboratory Certification Program in accordance with the AHRI RTL OM and AHRI General OM (both incorporated by reference, see § 84.37), or recognized under OSHA's Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory program in accordance with requirements codified at 29 CFR 1910.7.

Majority owned means when a corporate entity has at least a fifty percent stake in another entity.

Metered dose inhaler (MDI) means a handheld pressurized inhalation system that delivers small, precisely measured therapeutic doses of medication directly to the airways of a patient. MDIs treat health conditions such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and are approved for such use by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

Mission-critical military end uses means those uses of regulated substances by an agency of the Federal Government responsible for national defense that have a direct impact on mission capability, as determined by the U.S. Department of Defense, including, but not limited to uses necessary for development, testing, production, training, operation, and maintenance of Armed Forces vessels, aircraft, space systems, ground vehicles, amphibious vehicles, deployable/expeditionary support equipment, munitions, and command and control systems.

Non-objection notice means the limited authorization granted by the relevant Agency official to import a specific individual shipment of a regulated substance in accordance with § 84.25.

On board aerospace fire suppression means use of a regulated substance in fire suppression equipment used on board commercial and general aviation aircraft, including commercial-derivative aircraft for military use; rotorcraft; and space vehicles. On board commercial aviation fire suppression systems are installed throughout mainline and regional passenger and freighter aircraft, including engine nacelles, auxiliary power units (APUs), lavatory trash receptacles, baggage/crew compartments, and handheld extinguishers.

Person means any individual or legal entity, including an individual, corporation, partnership, association, state, municipality, political subdivision of a state, Indian tribe; any agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States; and any officer, agent, or employee thereof.

Process agent means the use of a regulated substance to form the environment for a chemical reaction or inhibiting an unintended chemical reaction (e.g., use as a solvent, catalyst, or stabilizer) where the regulated substance is not consumed in the reaction, but is removed or recycled back into the process and where no more than trace quantities remain in the final product. A feedstock, in contrast, is consumed during the reaction.

Production/Produce means the manufacture of a regulated substance from a raw material or feedstock chemical (but not including the destruction of a regulated substance by a technology approved by the Administrator as provided in § 84.29). The term production does not include:

(1) The manufacture of a regulated substance that is used and entirely consumed (except for trace quantities) in the manufacture of another chemical;

(2) The reclamation, reuse, or recycling of a regulated substance; or

(3) Insignificant quantities of a regulated substance inadvertently or coincidentally generated from any of the following, independent circumstances: during a chemical manufacturing process, resulting from unreacted feedstock, from the listed substance's use as a process agent present as a trace quantity in the chemical substance being manufactured, as an unintended byproduct of research and development applications, or during semiconductor manufacturing processes.

Production allowances means the limited authorization to produce regulated substances; however, production allowances may be used to produce regulated substances only in conjunction with consumption allowances. A person's production allowances are the total of the allowances obtained under § 84.9 or § 84.15 as may be modified under §§ 84.19 (transfer of allowances) and 84.35 (administrative consequences).

Production line means any process equipment (e.g., reactor, distillation column) used to convert raw materials or feedstock chemicals into regulated substances or consume regulated substances in the production of other chemicals.

Reclaim means the reprocessing of regulated substances to all of the specifications in appendix A to 40 CFR part 82, subpart F (based on AHRI Standard 700-2016) that are applicable to that regulated substance and to verify that the regulated substance meets these specifications using the analytical methodology prescribed in section 5 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 82, subpart F.

Regulated substance means a hydrofluorocarbon listed in the table contained in subsection (c)(1) of the AIM Act and a substance included as a regulated substance by the Administrator under the authority granted in subsection (c)(3). A current list of regulated substances can be found in appendix A to this part.

Repackagers means entities who transfer regulated substances, either alone or in a blend, from one container to another container prior to sale or distribution or offer for sale or distribution. An entity that services system cylinders for use in fire suppression equipment and returns the same regulated substances to the same system cylinder it was recovered from after the system cylinder is serviced is not a repackager.

Representative sample means a sample collected from a container offered for sale or distribution using a sampling method that obtains all components of regulated substance(s) in an unbiased and precise manner; and a sample that can be used to infer that the composition of regulated substance(s) in a population of containers offered for sale or distribution that constitute, or are derived from, the batch, are within stated tolerances.

Responsible corporate officer means a person who is authorized by the regulated entity to make representations on behalf of, or obligate the company as ultimately responsible for, any activity regulated under 40 CFR part 84, subpart A.

Responsible official means a person who is authorized by the regulated entity to make representations on behalf of, or obligate the company as ultimately responsible for, any activity regulated under 40 CFR part 84, subpart A.

Space vehicle means a man-made device, either manned or unmanned, designed for operation beyond Earth's atmosphere. This definition includes integral equipment such as models, mock-ups, prototypes, molds, jigs, tooling, hardware jackets, and test coupons. Also included is auxiliary equipment associated with tests, transport, and storage, which through contamination can compromise the space vehicle performance.

Structural composite preformed polyurethane foam means a foam blown from polyurethane that is reinforced with fibers and with polymer resin during the blowing process, and is preformed into the required shape (e.g., specific boat or trailer design) to increase structural strength while reducing the weight of such structures.

Transform means to use and entirely consume (except for trace quantities) a controlled substance in the manufacture of other chemicals. A regulated substance that is used and entirely consumed (except for trace quantities) in the manufacture of another chemical is called a feedstock.

Transhipment means the continuous shipment of a regulated substance, from a foreign country of origin through the United States or its territories, to a second foreign country of final destination, as long as the shipment does not enter U.S. commerce. A transhipment, as it moves through the United States or its territories, cannot be repackaged, sorted, or otherwise changed in condition.

Used regulated substances means regulated substances that have been recovered from their intended use systems (including regulated substances that have been, or may be subsequently, recycled or reclaimed).
[86 FR 55201, 55206, Oct. 5, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 46893, July 20, 2023; 88 FR 46894, July 20, 2023; 90 FR 41720, Aug. 26, 2025]

### § 84.5 Prohibitions relating to regulated substances.

(a) Production. (1) As of January 1, 2022, no person may produce regulated substances, intentionally or unintentionally, in excess of the quantity of unexpended production allowances and consumption allowances, unexpended production for export allowances, or unexpended application-specific allowances held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time in that control period. Every kilogram of production in excess of allowances expended constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. The required amount of allowances that must be expended will be calculated to the tenth with a minimum expenditure of 0.1 allowances for any production of regulated substances.

(2) As of January 1, 2022, no person may expend production allowances to produce a quantity of regulated substances unless that person expends an equal quantity of consumption allowances at the same time.

(3) A person is not required to expend production, consumption, or application-specific allowances to produce regulated substances if the regulated substances are destroyed using a technology approved by the Administrator for destruction under § 84.29 within 30 days of generating the regulated substance if the destruction technology is located at the facility where production occurred or 120 days of generating the regulated substance if the destruction technology is not located at the facility where production occurred.

(4) No person may expend production or consumption allowances for generation of HFC-23 that is emitted at the same facility as where it is produced. Consistent with this prohibition, prior to the emissions standard compliance date established in § 84.27, neither production nor consumption allowances are required for HFC-23 emitted at the same facility as where it is produced.

(b) Import. This paragraph applies starting January 1, 2022.

(1) No person may import bulk regulated substances, either as a single component or a multicomponent substance, except:

(i) If the importer of record possesses at the time they are required to submit reports to EPA pursuant to § 84.31(c)(7), and expends at the time of ship berthing for vessel arrivals, border crossing for land arrivals such as trucks, rails, and autos, and first point of terminus in U.S. jurisdiction for arrivals via air, consumption or application-specific allowances in a quantity equal to the exchange-value weighted equivalent of the regulated substances imported, whether present as a single component or a multicomponent blend. The required amount of allowances must be calculated to the tenth, but a minimum expenditure of 0.1 allowances is required for any import of regulated substances;

(ii) After receipt of a non-objection notice for substances for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction in accordance with § 84.25(a);

(iii) After receipt of a non-objection notice for used regulated substances imported for destruction in accordance with § 84.25(b);

(iv) As a transhipment in accordance with § 84.31(c)(3) if all transhipped regulated substance is exported from the United States within six months of its import; or

(v) All imports pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section must be physically accompanied by a certificate of analysis, if the certificate of analysis has not been electronically submitted pursuant to § 84.31(c)(7)(xvi).

(2) No person may attempt to land bulk regulated substances on, bring regulated substances into, or introduce regulated substances into, any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States without meeting one of the categories set forth in § 84.5(b)(1).

(3) Each person meeting the definition of importer for a particular regulated substance import transaction is jointly and severally liable for a violation of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, unless they can demonstrate that the importer of record possessed and expended allowances in accordance with the requirement outlined in paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (v) of this section or another party who meets the definition of an importer met one of the exceptions set forth in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section.

(4) Imports authorized under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section may not be in containers designed to hold 100 pounds or less of a regulated substance.

(5) A person issued a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of regulated substances under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section may not transfer or confer the right to import.

(6) No person may introduce into U.S. commerce any regulated substance claimed as a transhipment.

(7) Every kilogram of bulk regulated substances imported contrary to this paragraph (b) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. Import of less than one kilogram of bulk regulated substance contrary to this paragraph (b) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(c) Application-specific uses. (1) As of January 1, 2022, no person may confer application-specific allowances for the production or import of a regulated substance in excess of the amount of unexpended application-specific allowances held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time in that control period. No person may expend an application-specific allowance for regulated substances to be used in any application other than the one identified by the application-specific allowance expended. Every kilogram of production or import in excess of the application-specific allowances expended by the producer or importer constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. Production or import of less than one kilogram of regulated substance in excess of the application-specific allowances expended by the producer or importer constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(2) No person may use a regulated substance produced or imported by expending application-specific allowances for any purpose other than those for which the application-specific allowance was allocated, and as set forth in this paragraph (c). Application-specific allowances are apportioned to a person under §§ 84.13 and 84.15 for the production or import of regulated substances solely for the individual application listed on the allowance.

(3) This provision applies starting January 1, 2022.

(i) No person may acquire application-specific allowances unless for use in the same application as associated with the application-specific allowance. No person may transfer or confer application-specific allowances unless for use in the same application as associated with the application-specific allowance.

(ii) No person may acquire or sell regulated substances produced or imported using application-specific allowances for use in anything other than the application for which it was originally allocated. Every kilogram of a regulated substance imported or exported in contravention of this paragraph constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. Import or export of less than one kilogram of regulated substance in contravention of this paragraph constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(d) Calendar-year allowances. All production, consumption, production for export, and application-specific allowances may only be expended for production or import occurring in the calendar year for which the allowances are allocated (i.e., January 1 through December 31). No person may expend, transfer, or confer a production, consumption, production for export, or application-specific allowance after December 31 of the year for which it was issued. Entities may transfer or confer their production, consumption, or application-specific allowances before January 1 of the calendar year for which the allowances were allocated.

(e) International transfers. This paragraph applies starting January 1, 2022. (1) No person subject to the requirements of this subpart may transfer a production allowance to a person in a foreign country unless that country has established the same or similar requirements or otherwise undertaken commitments regarding the production and consumption of regulated substances as are contained in the AIM Act, as determined by the relevant agency official.

(2) No person may transfer production allowances to or from a person in a foreign country without satisfying the requirements in § 84.19. Every production allowance transferred in contravention of this paragraph constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(f) Sale and distribution. No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, any regulated substance that was produced or imported in violation of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, except for such actions needed to re-export the regulated substance or if the regulated substance was purchased at a government auction authorized by the United States Customs and Border Protection and consumption allowances were expended in the requisite quantity to cover the regulated substances at issue. Every kilogram of a regulated substance sold or distributed, or offered for sale or distribution, in contravention of this paragraph constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. Sale or distribution, or offer for sale or distribution, of less than one kilogram of regulated substance in contravention of this paragraph constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(g) False information. No person may provide false, inaccurate, or misleading information to the EPA when petitioning, reporting, or for any communication required under this subpart.

(h) [Reserved]

(i) Labeling. (1) As of January 1, 2022, no person may sell or distribute, offer for sale or distribution, or import containers containing a regulated substance that lacks a label or other permanent markings stating the common name(s), chemical name(s), or ASHRAE designation of the regulated substance(s) or blend contained within, and the percentages of the regulated substances if a blend. The label or other permanent markings must be:

(i) Durable and printed or otherwise labeled on, or affixed to, the external surface of the bulk regulated substance container;

(ii) Readily visible and legible;

(iii) Able to withstand open weather exposure without a substantial reduction in visibility or legibility;

(iv) Displayed on a background of contrasting color; and

(v) If a container of a regulated substance is contained within a box or other overpack, the exterior packaging must contain legible and visible information of what regulated substance is contained within.

(2) No person other than the importer of record may repackage or relabel regulated substances that were initially unlabeled or mislabeled. In order to repackage the regulated substances, the importer of record must either:

(i) Expend consumption allowances equal to the amount of allowances that would be required if each cylinder were full of HFC-23; or

(ii) Verify the contents with independent laboratory testing results and affix a correct label on the container that matches the lab-verified test results before the date of importation (consistent with the definition at 19 CFR 101.1) of the container.

(3)(i) No person producing, importing, exporting, reclaiming, recycling for fire suppression, or repackaging regulated substances, whether as a single or multicomponent substance, may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, those regulated substances without first conducting laboratory testing of a representative sample of the regulated substances that they are producing, importing, exporting, reclaiming, recycling for fire suppression, or repackaging to verify that the composition of the regulated substance(s) matches the container labeling using the sampling and testing methodology prescribed in appendix A to 40 CFR part 82, subpart F for regulated substances offered for sale and distribution as refrigerants and using the following sampling and testing method for regulated substances offered for non-refrigerant uses:

Table 1 to Paragraph (i)(3)(i) Non-Refrigerant Regulated Substance Sampling and Testing Methods

Regulated substance
Sampling and testing method

HFC-23, HFC-134, HFC-125, HFC-143a, HFC-41, HFC-152a
Appendix A to 40 CFR part 82, subpart F, Sections 1, 2, 3, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 7, 8; Part 7 of 2008 Appendix C for Analytical Procedures for AHRI Standard 700-2014—Normative, (incorporated by reference in § 84.37).3

HFC-134a, HFC-143, HFC-245fa, HFC-32, HFC-152
Appendix A to 40 CFR part 82, subpart F, Sections 1, 2, 3, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 7, 8; Part 9 of 2008 Appendix C for Analytical Procedures for AHRI Standard 700-2014—Normative, (incorporated by reference in § 84.37).3

HFC-227ea, HFC-236cb, HFC-236ea, HFC-236fa, HFC-245ca, HFC-365mfc, HFC-43-10mee
Sections 8,1 9, 10, 11, 12,2 and 13 of EPA Method 18 as applicable—appendix A-6 to 40 CFR part 60—Test Methods 16 through 18. Or
ASTM D6806-02 (2022), Standard Practice for Analysis of Halogenated Organic Solvents and Their Admixtures by Gas Chromatography (incorporated by reference in § 84.37).4

1 Only applicable portions of section 8 as specified here are required. Canisters may be used in place of bags for the purposes of these requirements. A sampling and analysis procedure under section 8.2 which provides for a representative sample is required (while section 8.2.1.5 is likely most appropriate, other procedures may be acceptable). Sections 8.4.1, 8.4.2.1, and 8.4.2.2 are required.
2 &#x201C;Dry basis&#x201D; concentrations do not need to be recorded.
3 ASTM D6064-11 (reapproved 2022), Standard Specification for HFC-227ea, 1,1,1,2,3,3,3-Heptafluoropropane (CF3CHFCF3) (incorporated by reference in § 84.37) may be used as an alternative for non-refrigerant regulated substances offered for fire suppression use.
4 ASTM D6231/D6231M-21, Standard Specification for HFC-125 (Pentafluoroethane, C2HF5) (incorporated by reference in § 84.37) and ASTM D6541-21 Standard Specification for HFC-236fa, 1,1,1,3,3,3-Hexafluoropropane, (CF3CH2CF3), (incorporated by reference in § 84.37) reference ASTM D6806 and may be used as an alternative for non-refrigerant regulated substances offered for fire suppression use.

(ii) No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, regulated substances, whether as a single or multicomponent substance, as a refrigerant (except if recovered from and recycled for use in motor vehicle air conditioning or motor vehicle air conditioning-like appliances in accordance with 40 CFR part 82, subpart B) that do not meet the specifications in appendix A to 40 CFR part 82, subpart F—Specifications for Refrigerants, or, if not listed therein, appendix A1 to 40 CFR part 82, subpart F. For persons who are producing, importing, reclaiming, recycling for fire suppression, or repackaging regulated substances, the applicable specifications must be verified using laboratory testing and the sampling and testing methodology prescribed in appendix A to 40 CFR part 82, subpart F.

(j) Relationship to other laws. Section (k) of the AIM Act states that sections 113, 114, 304, and 307 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7413, 7414, 7604, 7607) shall apply to this section and any rule, rulemaking, or regulation promulgated by the Administrator pursuant to this section as though this section were expressly included in title VI of that Act (42 U.S.C. 7671 et seq.). Violation of this part is subject to Federal enforcement and the penalties laid out in section 113 of the Clean Air Act.

(k) Production for export allowances. No person may use a regulated substance produced by expending production for export allowances for any purpose other than those for which the production for export allowance was allocated, aligning with the applications as listed in § 84.13(a).
[86 FR 55206, Oct. 5, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 46894, July 20, 2023; 89 FR 73592, Sept. 11, 2024; 90 FR 41721, Aug. 26, 2025]

### § 84.7 Phasedown schedule.

(a) Phasedown from baseline. Total production and consumption of regulated substances in the United States in each year cannot exceed the amounts (shown as a percentage of baseline) in the following table:

Date
Percentage of
production
baseline
(percent)
Percentage of
consumption
baseline
(percent)

(1) 2022-2023
90
90

(2) 2024-2028
60
60

(3) 2029-2033
30
30

(4) 2034-2035
20
20

(5) 2036 and thereafter
15
15

(b) Annual production and consumption limits. (1) The production baseline for regulated substances is 382,535,439 metric tons of exchange value equivalent.

(2) The consumption baseline for regulated substances is 302,538,316 metric tons of exchange value equivalent.

(3) Total production and consumption in metric tons of exchange value equivalent for regulated substances in the United States in each year is derived by multiplying the production baseline or consumption baseline by the percentage in paragraph (a) of this section. Total production and consumption allowances issued under this subpart may not exceed the quantities shown in the following table:

Table 2 to Paragraph (b)(3)

Year
Total production
(MTEVe)
Total consumption
(MTEVe)

(i) 2022-2023
344,299,157
273,498,315

(ii) 2024-2028
229,521,263
181,522,990

(iii) 2029-2033
114,760,632
90,761,495

(iv) 2034-2035
76,507,088
60,507,663

(v) 2036 and thereafter
57,380,316
45,380,747

[86 FR 55201, Oct. 5, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 44225, July 12, 2023; 88 FR 46895, July 20, 2023]

### § 84.9 Allocation of calendar-year production allowances.

(a) The relevant agency official will issue, through a separate notification, calendar year 2022 and 2023 production allowances to entities that produced a regulated substance in 2020. The number of production allowances allocated to each eligible entity for 2022-2023 is calculated as follows:

(1) Take the average of the three highest annual exchange value-weighted production amounts that each eligible entity reported to the agency for calendar years 2011 through 2019;

(2) Sum the &#x201C;average high year&#x201D; values determined in step 1 of all eligible entities and determine each entity's percentage of that total;

(3) Determine the amount of general pool production allowances by subtracting the quantity of application-specific allowances for that year as determined in accordance with § 84.13 and the set-aside in § 84.15 from the production cap in § 84.7(b)(3);

(4) Determine individual entities' production allowance quantities by multiplying each entity's percentage determined in step 2 by the amount of general pool allowances determined in step 3.

(b) Starting with the allocation of 2024 calendar years allowances, the relevant Agency official will issue, through a separate notification, calendar year production allowances to entities that produced a regulated substance in 2021 or 2022, or both 2021 and 2022. The allocation of calendar years 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, and 2028 production allowances is calculated as follows for each entity:

(1) Take the average of the three highest annual exchange value-weighted production amounts that each eligible entity reported to the Agency for calendar years 2011 through 2019. If an entity, or commonly owned or controlled group of entities, does not have consumption amounts for three years between calendar years 2011 through 2019, the relevant Agency official will take the average of available year(s) of consumption for calendar years 2011 through 2019;

(2) Sum every entity's average values determined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and determine each entity's percentage of that total;

(3) Determine the amount of general pool production allowances by subtracting the quantity of application-specific allowances for that year as determined in accordance with § 84.13 and 3,000.0 MTEVe allowances to be allocated pursuant to § 84.18, from the production cap in § 84.7(b)(3); and

(4) Determine individual entities' production allowance quantities by multiplying each entity's percentage determined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section by the amount of general pool allowances determined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(c) Starting with the allocation of 2026 calendar year allowances, the relevant Agency official will withhold 1,000,000 MTEVe of production allowances. If there are remaining production allowances after distribution from the set-aside under § 84.15, the relevant agency official will distribute such allowances pro rata to all entities receiving production allowances in that calendar year.

(d)(1) EPA will allocate calendar year production allowances to individual entities by October 1 of the calendar year prior to the year in which the allowances may be used based on the exchange value-weighted quantities calculated in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(2) EPA will provide public notice of the list of companies receiving production allowances as well as the quantities they will be allocated by that date.

(3) In addition to the procedure in paragraph (a) of this section, the relevant agency official will allocate calendar year production allowances to entities that qualified for allowances under § 84.15.

(4) If there are remaining production allowances after distribution from the set-aside under § 84.15, the relevant agency official will distribute such allowances on a pro rata basis to the entities in paragraph (a) of this section by March 31 of the calendar year in which the allowances may be used.
[86 FR 55201, Oct. 5, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 46895, July 20, 2023; 90 FR 41721, Aug. 26, 2025]

### § 84.11 Allocation of calendar-year consumption allowances.

(a) The relevant agency official will issue, through a separate notification, calendar years 2022 and 2023 consumption allowances to entities that imported or produced a bulk regulated substance in 2020, unless an individual accommodation is permitted by a relevant Agency official. If multiple entities that imported are related through shared corporate or common ownership or control, the relevant agency official will calculate and issue allowances to a single corporate or common owner. The number of consumption allowances allocated to each eligible entity for 2022-2023 is calculated as follows:

(1) Take the average of the three highest annual exchange value-weighted consumption amounts chosen at the corporate or common ownership level for eligible entities reporting to the agency for each calendar year 2011 through 2019;

(2) Sum the &#x201C;average high year&#x201D; values determined in step 1 of all eligible entities and determine each entity's percentage of that total;

(3) Determine the amount of general pool consumption allowances by subtracting the quantity of application-specific allowances for that year as determined in accordance with § 84.13 and the set-aside in § 84.15 from the consumption cap § 84.7(b)(3);

(4) Determine individual entity consumption allowance quantities by multiplying each entity's percentage determined in step 2 by the amount of general pool allowances determined in step 3.

(b) Starting with the allocation of 2024 calendar years allowances the relevant Agency official will issue, through a separate notification, calendar year consumption allowances. The allocation of calendar year 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, and 2028 consumption allowances is calculated as follows for each entity:

(1) For new market entrants that were allocated allowances pursuant to § 84.15(e)(3), take the allowances allocated for calendar year 2023 and divide that value by the proportion of calendar year 2023 consumption allowances received by general pool allowance holders pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section relative to their high three average calculated pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section;

(2) For entities that produced or imported a regulated substance in 2021 or 2022, or both 2021 and 2022, and have not been allocated allowances pursuant to § 84.15(e)(3), the relevant Agency official will calculate and issue allowances. This calculation and issuance will be to a single entity if multiple entities with historic consumption data are related through shared corporate or common ownership. The relevant Agency official will take the average of the three highest annual exchange value-weighted consumption amounts, which for entities related through shared corporate or common ownership or control would be aggregated and averaged at the corporate or common ownership level, that each eligible entity reported to the Agency for calendar years 2011 through 2019. If an entity, or commonly owned or controlled group of entities, does not have consumption amounts for three years between calendar years 2011 through 2019, the relevant Agency official will take the average of available year(s) of consumption for calendar years 2011 through 2019;

(3) If an entity has a value calculated under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, take the single higher value;

(4) If an entity allocated allowances pursuant to § 84.15(e)(3) was acquired by an entity that has a market share calculable under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and EPA has approved this acquisition, sum the value calculated under paragraph (b)(1) of this section for the entity allocated allowances pursuant to § 84.15(e)(3) with the value calculated under paragraph (b)(2) of this section disregarding any historic consumption activity by the entity allocated allowances pursuant to § 84.15(e)(3), except this paragraph (b)(4) shall not apply to an entity allocated allowances pursuant to § 84.15(e)(3) that has a higher value calculated under paragraph (b)(2) of this section than under paragraph (b)(1) of this section;

(5) Sum every entity's values as determined in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section and determine each entity's percentage of that total;

(6) Determine the amount of general pool consumption allowances by subtracting the quantity of application-specific allowances for that year as determined in accordance with § 84.13 from the consumption cap in § 84.7(b)(3); and

(7) Determine individual entities' consumption allowance quantities by multiplying each entity's percentage determined in paragraph (b)(5) of this section by the amount of general pool allowances determined in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.

(c) Starting with the allocation of 2026 calendar year allowances, the relevant Agency official will withhold 1,000,000 MTEVe of consumption allowances. If there are remaining consumption allowances after distribution from the set-aside under § 84.15, the relevant agency official will distribute such allowances to all entities receiving consumption allowances in that calendar year.

(d)(1) EPA will allocate calendar year consumption allowances to individual entities by October 1 of the calendar year prior to the year in which the allowances may be used based on the exchange value-weighted quantities calculated in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(2) EPA will provide public notice of the list of companies receiving consumption allowances as well as how they will be allocated by that date.
[86 FR 55201, Oct. 5, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 46896, July 20, 2023; 90 FR 41721, Aug. 26, 2025]

### § 84.13 Allocation of application-specific allowances.

(a) Application-specific allowances are available to entities for calendar years as designated that use a regulated substance in the following applications:

(1) As a propellant in metered dose inhalers for calendar years 2022-2030;

(2) In the manufacture of defense sprays for calendar years 2022-2025;

(3) In the manufacture of structural composite preformed polyurethane foam for marine use and trailer use for calendar years 2022-2030;

(4) In the etching of semiconductor material or wafers and the cleaning of chemical vapor deposition chambers within the semiconductor manufacturing sector for calendar years 2022-2030;

(5) For mission-critical military end uses for calendar years 2022-2030;

(6) For on board aerospace fire suppression for calendar years 2022-2030; and

(7) For any application designated as eligible for application-specific allowances pursuant to § 84.14, but in all instances for no longer than calendar year 2030.

(b) Entities identified in paragraph (a) of this section must request application-specific allowances by July 31 of the calendar year prior to the year in which the allowances may be used starting with the calendar year 2023 allocation. The application must include the information required in § 84.31(h)(2) except for applications for mission-critical military end uses, which must include the information required in § 84.31(h)(3).

(1) Entities must provide additional information if requesting that EPA consider unique circumstances that are not reflected by the rates of growth calculated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, including supporting documentation that verifies this need. The relevant agency official will consider the following situations as unique circumstances:

(i) Demonstrated manufacturing capacity coming on line;

(ii) The acquisition of another domestic manufacturer or its manufacturing facility or facilities;

(iii) A global pandemic, other public health emergency, or other healthcare system needs related to increased patients diagnosed with medical conditions treated by metered dose inhalers; and

(iv) Buildup of a stockpile of a specific regulated substance in the event of a production cessation. Requests for this unique circumstances must include: a letter from the applicant's supplier signed by a responsible corporate officer stating that the supplier is ceasing all production of the regulated substance at issue within three years; certification and supporting documentation that the applicant has regulatory requirements beyond this part that limit ability to switch suppliers or there are no other suppliers that can supply the regulated substance in the quantity needed; and evidence that the applicant has a restricted supply chain for regulated substances. Applicants must specify: quantity (in kilograms) they intend to purchase of each HFC; the year(s) of intended purchase; and description of stockpile plan.

(2) Entities must provide an estimate of the total quantity of regulated substances they expect to purchase in the following calendar year based on their expected eligibility for allowances.

(c) The relevant agency official will determine the quantity of application-specific allowances to issue to each company by:

(1) Accounting for verified changes in inventory and quantities of regulated substances acquired (excluding amounts conveyed or sold) in calculating use, except for applications for mission-critical military end uses;

(2) Accounting for any additional information provided regarding unique circumstances described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;

(3) Excluding quantities reported under § 84.31(h)(1)(x) and (xi) in calculating growth rates and use amounts;

(4) Allocating allowances equivalent to the highest verified use amount measured in exchange value equivalent from the prior three years for entities that meet any of the following criteria:

(i) Entity purchased equal to or less than 100 kilograms of regulated substances in at least one of the last three years, and the average growth rate of use for the company over the past three years calculated under subparagraph (7)(i) is equal to or greater than 200 percent;

(ii) Entity has a Year 3 use amount that is less than or equal to 33 percent of its Year 2 use;

(iii) Entity had zero purchases or use in one of the last three years for reasons other than newly using regulated substances; or

(iv) Entity purchased equal to or less than 100 kilograms of regulated substances in each of the past three years;

(5) For entities that do not meet any of the criteria in paragraph (4), multiplying the use of regulated substances by the company in the specific application in the prior year by the higher of:

(i) The average growth rate of use for the company over the past three years; or

(ii) The average growth rate of use by all companies requesting allowances for that specific application over the past three years; and

(6) For an entity operating in the etching of semiconductor material or wafers and the cleaning of chemical vapor deposition chambers within the semiconductor manufacturing application, add 10 percent of the quantity derived pursuant to paragraphs 1 through 5;

(7) Subtracting out any general pool allowances allocated to the company for that calendar year; and

(8) In all instances, using the amount reported in paragraph (b)(2) if it is less than the quantity otherwise determined under this paragraph.

(d)(1) EPA will allocate application-specific allowances by October 1 of the calendar year prior to the year in which the allowances may be used. The relevant agency official will issue, through a separate notification, application-specific allowances to eligible entities consistent with paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.

(2) EPA will provide public notice by that date of the list of entities receiving application-specific allowances, the quantity of allowances for each entity, and the specific application(s) for which the allowances may be used.

(e) EPA will publish a list of entities allocated application-specific allowances, the application for which they may use regulated substances, and the quantity of allowances allocated.

(f) Application-specific allowances may be expended for either the import or production of a regulated substance.

(g) Entities allocated application-specific allowances may confer application-specific allowances to a producer, importer, or other supplier without being subject to the offset required of transfers of allowances in § 84.19. The recipient of a conferred application-specific allowance may continue to confer the allowance until it is expended for production or import. When conferring application-specific allowances, the conferring party must provide a statement certifying that the regulated substances produced or imported with the conferred allowances will only be used for the application-specific use associated with the allowance(s). The producer(s), importer(s), and/or supplier(s) receiving application-specific allowances must certify to the conferring party that they will not sell regulated substances produced or imported with application-specific allowances for any application or use other than the application-specific use associated with the allowance(s).
[86 FR 55201, 55208, Oct. 5, 2021, as amended at 90 FR 41721, Aug. 26, 2025]

### § 84.14 Petition for designation of an application as eligible for application-specific allowances.

(a) Petitions filed pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 7675(e)(4)(B)(ii) requesting the designation of an application as eligible for application-specific allowances must include:

(1) A description of the application, including an explanation of what the application is, what purpose or function it achieves, and what populations or commercial products benefit from the application;

(2) A list of regulated substance(s) and description of their use(s) in the application and an explanation as to why regulated substances are required in the application;

(3) Evidence that no safe or technically achievable substitute, including not-in-kind technologies, is or is expected to be available, and that the petitioner has conducted research to evaluate substitutes for the regulated substance(s);

(4) Evidence that supply of the regulated substance(s) used in the application is insufficient to accommodate the application;

(5) A signed certification from a responsible corporate officer at the requesting entity that the application cannot use recovered and reprocessed regulated substance in conjunction with or in place of virgin regulated substance, either due to demonstrated lack of technical achievability or insufficient supply, and an explanation and evidence documenting why recovered and reprocessed regulated substance cannot be used for the application;

(6) Total quantity (in kilograms) of all regulated substances acquired and used by each individual entity submitting the petition for use in the application specified in the petition in each of the previous three years, including records documenting that quantity;

(7) The name of the entity or entities supplying regulated substances and contact information for those suppliers over the past three years;

(8) Total quantity (in kilograms) of each regulated substance held in inventory for use in the application specified in the petition by each entity submitting the petition as of the date the petition is submitted;

(9) An estimate of the total quantity of regulated substances the petitioner expects to purchase for use in the application specified in the petition in the first year it would be eligible for ASAs;

(10) Data on the proportion of the overall cost of the product or system that reflects the cost of regulated substances for each entity;

(11) Historic and projected sales for the product or system for each entity;

(12) Evidence of research into design changes to decrease the amount of regulated substance used in the product or system;

(13) An explanation regarding whether the use of the regulated substance(s) is necessary for the health, safety, or is critical for the functioning of society (encompassing cultural and intellectual aspects);

(14) An explanation regarding steps taken to minimize the use of the regulated substance and any associated emission of the regulated substance(s); and

(15) Information on regulatory restrictions related to possible alternatives and substitutes.

(b) If the petition does not include the required information listed in paragraph (a), the petition will be deemed incomplete, and EPA will notify the entity submitting the petition. The Agency will not consider the petition until it is complete.

(c) In the event that an application becomes eligible to receive application-specific allowances:

(1) EPA will allocate allowances to entities in a new application in accordance with § 84.13; and

(2) A new application would be eligible to receive application-specific allowances for no longer than the latest calendar year included in § 84.13(a).
[90 FR 41722, Aug. 26, 2025]

### § 84.15 Set-aside of application-specific allowances, production allowances, and consumption allowances.

(a) Total allowances available under this section to be allocated for calendar years 2022 and 2023 are:

(1) Up to 7.5 million metric tons of exchange value equivalent consumption allowances annually for calendar years 2022 and 2023.

(2) Up to 2.5 million metric tons of exchange value equivalent production allowances for calendar years 2022 and 2023.

(b)(1) Consumption and production allowances in paragraph (a) of this section are available in the form of application-specific allowances to entities that qualify for application-specific allowances under § 84.13 that were not issued allowances as of October 1, 2021.

(2) Entities must provide the relevant Agency official with the information contained in § 84.13 by November 30, 2021 to be eligible for consideration.

(c) Consumption allowances in paragraph (a) of this section are available to either:

(1) Persons who imported regulated substances in 2020 that were not required to report under 40 CFR part 98 and were not issued allowances as of October 1, 2021; or

(2) Persons who are newly importing regulated substances, do not share corporate or common ownership, corporate affiliation in the past five years, or familial relations with entities receiving allowances through this rule.

(d)(1) Persons who meet the criteria listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must provide the relevant Agency official with the following information by November 30, 2021, to be eligible for consideration:

(i) Name and address of the company, the complete ownership of the company (with percentages of ownership), and contact information for a designated representative at the company;

(ii) The following information on an annual basis for all years between 2011 and 2020 where the person imported regulated substances:

(A) The total quantity (in kilograms) imported of each regulated substance each year, including each shipment, dates of and port of entry for each import, and country from which the imported regulated substances were imported;

(B) The Harmonized Tariff Schedule codes and CAS numbers for the regulated substances or blends imported;

(C) The quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances imported for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction; and

(D) The quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances sold or transferred during that year to each person for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction.

(iii) The following information on an annual basis for all years between 2011 and 2020 where the person exported regulated substances:

(A) The names and addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the exports;

(B) The exporter's Employer Identification Number;

(C) The quantity of each specific regulated substance exported, including the quantity of regulated substance that is used, reclaimed, or recycled;

(D) The date on which, and the port from which, the regulated substances were exported from the United States or its territories;

(E) The country to which the regulated substances were exported; and

(F) The Harmonized Tariff Schedule codes and CAS numbers for the regulated substances shipped.

(2) Persons who meet the criteria listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section must provide the relevant Agency official with the following information by November 30, 2021, to be eligible for consideration:

(i) Name and address of the company, the complete ownership of the company (with percentages of ownership), and contact information for a designated representative at the company;

(ii) Whether the company is a woman- or minority-owned business;

(iii) Contact information for the owner of the company;

(iv) The date of incorporation and State in which the company is incorporated;

(v) State license identifier;

(vi) A plan for importing regulated substances;

(vii) A prospective foreign exporter that the applicant anticipates working with;

(viii) A certification that the business owner understands the regulatory requirements of this part and will make best efforts to comply with the regulatory requirements; and

(ix) A certification that the information submitted is complete, accurate, and truthful.

(e) The relevant Agency official will allocate calendar-year 2022 and 2023 allowances in paragraph (a) of this section no later than March 31, 2022, in the following manner:

(1) First, persons who meet the criteria listed in paragraph (b) of this section are allocated application-specific allowances (subtracted from both the production and consumption portions of the set-aside pool) for 2022 equal to the estimated need, based on projected, current, and historical trends, and subject to the same conditions for such allowances in § 84.13;

(2) Second, persons who meet the criteria listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are allocated allowances for 2022 by calculating their &#x201C;average high year&#x201D; based on the formula in § 84.11(a)(1) and then applying the same reduction percentage between the values calculated in § 84.11(a)(1) and (4) for all general pool allowance holders.

(3) Third, persons who meet the criteria listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section are allocated up to 0.2 million metric tons exchange value equivalent in allowances for 2022 and 2023.

(4) If the eligible requests received total an amount of allowances that exceeds the remaining quantity of allowances in the set-aside pool, after subtracting allowances issued under paragraphs (b)(1) and (c)(1) of this section, the amount provided to each person who meets the criteria listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section that has applied to the set-aside pool will be allocated an amount of allowances that is reduced on a pro rata basis. If any allowances remain after the steps outlined in paragraphs (b)(1) and (c)(1) and (2) of this section, those allowances will be distributed to the persons who meet the criteria listed in §§ 84.9 and 84.11 on a pro rata basis.

(f) EPA is placing restrictions on allowances allocated under this section.

(1) Allowances allocated to persons under paragraph (e)(3) of this section, due to their eligibility of meeting the criteria in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, may not be transferred to another entity.

(2) Allowances issued under this section are not available to companies that are a subsidiary of, have any common ownership stake with, had corporate affiliation in the past five years with, or have a familial relationship with another allowance holder.

(g) EPA will provide public notice by March 31, 2022, of the list of entities receiving allowances under this paragraph, the quantity of allowances for each entity, and the specific application(s) for which the allowances may be used, where applicable.

(h) Consumption and production allowances from § 84.9(c) and § 84.11(c) are available in the form of application-specific allowances to entities that request them no later than April 30 of the calendar year in which the allowances may be expended that:

(1) Qualify for application-specific allowances under § 84.13;

(2) Provide supporting documentation that verify a need to purchase regulated substances in the present calendar year beyond what is reflected by the rates of growth calculated in § 84.13(c)(1);

(3) Provide the total quantities (in kg) of regulated substances held in inventory as of the date the application is submitted, including documentation to verify this quantity (this includes zero quantities), and an explanation of why that inventory, if available, will not be sufficient to accommodate this increased demand;

(4) Are facing a situation that qualifies as a unique circumstance as defined in § 84.13(b)(iii); and

(5) Demonstrate to the satisfaction of the relevant Agency official that the situation described in subparagraph (3) was unknowable at the time the entity made its request for application-specific allowances pursuant to § 84.13(b).
[86 FR 55201, Oct. 5, 2021, as amended at 90 FR 41722, Aug. 26, 2025]

### § 84.17 Availability of additional consumption allowances.

A person may obtain at any time during the year, in accordance with the provisions of this section, consumption allowances equivalent to the quantity of regulated substances that the person exported from the United States and its territories to a foreign country in accordance with this section, except for the export of regulated substances produced with a production for export allowance.

(a) The exporter must submit to the relevant Agency official a request for consumption allowances setting forth the following:

(1) The identities and addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the exports;

(2) The exporter's Employer Identification Number;

(3) The names, telephone numbers, and email addresses of contact persons for the exporter and the recipient;

(4) The quantity (in kilograms) and name of the regulated substances exported;

(5) The source of the regulated substances and whether the date purchased was before or after January 1, 2022;

(6) The date on which, and the port from which, the regulated substances were exported from the United States or its territories;

(7) The country to which the regulated substances were exported;

(8) A copy of the bill of lading and the invoice indicating the net quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances shipped and documenting the sale of the regulated substances to the purchaser;

(9) The Harmonized Tariff Schedule codes of the regulated substances exported;

(10) Internal Transaction Numbers for all shipments; and

(11) All international export declaration documentation (i.e., electronic export information), which is electronically filed within AES.

(b) The relevant Agency official will review the information and documentation submitted under paragraph (a) of this section and will issue a notice to the requestor within 15 working days.

(1) The relevant Agency official will determine the quantity of regulated substances that the documentation verifies was exported and issue consumption allowances equivalent to the quantity of regulated substances that were exported.

(i) The grant of the consumption allowances will be effective on the date the notice is issued.

(ii) The consumption allowances will be granted to the person the exporter indicates, whether it is the producer, the importer, or the exporter.

(iii) The consumption allowances will be valid until December 31 of the same calendar year in which the regulated substances were exported.

(2) The relevant Agency official will issue a notice that the consumption allowances are not granted if the official determines that the information and documentation do not satisfactorily substantiate the exporter's claims.
[86 FR 55208, Oct. 5, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 46896, July 20, 2023; 90 FR 41723, Aug. 26, 2025]

### § 84.18 Authorization of production for export allowances.

(a) EPA will allocate 3,000.0 MTEVe of production for export allowances to Iofina Chemical by October 1 of the calendar year prior to the year in which the allowances may be used for calendar years 2026, 2027, 2028, 2029, and 2030.

(b) Production for export allowances cannot be transferred.

(c) Any regulated substances produced with production for export allowances must be exported in the same calendar year it was produced.
[90 FR 41723, Aug. 26, 2025]

### § 84.19 Transfers of allowances.

(a) Inter-company transfers. As of January 1, 2022, a person (&#x201C;transferor&#x201D;) may transfer to any other person (&#x201C;transferee&#x201D;) any quantity of the transferor's production allowances, consumption allowances, or application-specific allowances for use by the same type of application, as long as the following conditions are met:

(1) An offset equal to five percent of the amount of allowances transferred will be deducted from the transferor's production allowance balance if a transfer is made of production allowances, or deducted from the transferor's consumption allowance balance if a transfer is made of consumption allowances. In the case of transferring application-specific allowances, one percent of the amount of allowances transferred will be deducted from the transferor's application-specific allowance balance.

(2) The transferor must submit to the relevant Agency official a transfer claim setting forth the following:

(i) The identities and addresses of the transferor and the transferee;

(ii) The names, telephone numbers, and email addresses of contact persons for the transferor and the transferee;

(iii) The type of allowances being transferred, including the specific application (if applicable), for which allowances are to be transferred;

(iv) The quantity (in MTEVe) of allowances being transferred;

(v) The total cost of the allowances transferred;

(vi) The amount of unexpended allowances of the type and for the year being transferred that the transferor holds under authority of this subpart as of the date the claim is submitted to EPA;

(vii) The quantity of the offset to be deducted from the transferor's allowance balance; and

(viii) For transfers of application-specific allowances, a signed document from the transferee certifying that the transferee will use the application-specific allowances only for the same application for which the application-specific allowance was allocated.

(3) The relevant Agency official will determine whether the records maintained by EPA indicate that the transferor possesses unexpended allowances sufficient to cover the transfer claim as of the date the transfer claim is processed. The transfer claim is the quantity in EVe to be transferred plus the quantity of the offset. The relevant Agency official will take into account any previous transfers, any production, and allowable imports and exports of regulated substances reported by the transferor. Within three working days of receiving a complete transfer claim, the relevant Agency official will take action to notify the transferor and transferee as follows:

(i) The relevant Agency official will issue a non-objection notice to both the transferor and transferee indicating if EPA's records show that the transferor has sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim. In the case of transfers of production allowances or consumption allowances, the relevant agency official will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus five percent of that quantity. In the case of transfers of application-specific allowances the relevant agency official will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus one percent of that quantity. The transferor and the transferee may proceed with the transfer when the relevant agency official issues a non-objection notice. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and transferee will be liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.

(ii) The relevant Agency official will issue an objection notice disallowing the transfer if EPA's records show that the transferor has insufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim, that the transferor has failed to respond to one or more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a determination, or that the transferor or transferee has been notified of an impending administrative consequence and therefore is disallowed from transferring allowances in accordance with § 84.35. Either transferor or transferee may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the relevant Agency official within 10 working days after receipt of the objection notice. The official may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal is filed electronically by the tenth working day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that day.

(4) The transferer and transferee must maintain a copy of the transfer claim and a copy of EPA's non-objection or objection notice for five years.

(5) An entity does not need to follow the procedures in this paragraph (a) to expend allowances possessed by another entity that is majority owned by it, it majority owns, related to it through majority ownership, or commonly owned with it.

(b) International transfers of production allowances—(1) Requests. A person may request to increase or decrease their production allowances for a specified control period through transfers of such allowances with a person in a foreign country if the applicable conditions in this paragraph are met. Once transferred, all allowances transferred consistent with this paragraph will function as a production allowance, as defined in § 84.3.

(i) Timing of requests. Any request for an increase or decrease in production allowances based on an international transfer under this paragraph must be submitted by October 1 of the year prior to the calendar year in which the transferred allowances would be usable.

(ii) Timing of the transfer. International transfers under this paragraph will be deemed to occur, and the transferred allowances will be usable, as of January 1 of the calendar year to which the transfer applies.

(2) Transfer from a person in a foreign country—information requirements. (i) A person requesting to change their production allowances based on a transfer from a person in a foreign country must submit to the relevant Agency official at the time the international transfer is requested a signed document from an official representative in that country's embassy in the United States stating that the appropriate authority within that country has revised the domestic production limits for that country equal to the lowest of the following three production quantities and identifying which of the following three production quantities was lowest:

(A) The maximum production level permitted in § 84.7(b) in the year of the international transfer minus the quantity of production allowances (in exchange value-weighted kilograms) to be transferred;

(B) The maximum production level for the applicable regulated substances that are allowed under applicable law (including the foreign country's applicable domestic law) minus the quantity of production allowances (in exchange value-weighted kilograms) to be transferred; or

(C) The average of the foreign country's actual national production level of the applicable regulated substances for the three calendar years prior to the year of the transfer minus the quantity of production allowances (in exchange value-weighted kilograms) to be transferred.

(ii) A person requesting a revision based on a transfer from a foreign country (&#x201C;transferee&#x201D;) must also submit to the relevant Agency official a true copy of the document that sets forth the following:

(A) The identity and address of the transferee;

(B) The foreign country authorizing the transfer;

(C) The names, telephone numbers, and email addresses of contact persons for the transferee and for the person in the foreign country;

(D) The name of the chemical and quantity (in kilograms) of production being transferred;

(E) Documentation that the foreign country possesses the necessary quantity of unexpended production rights;

(F) The calendar year to which the transfer applies; and

(G) A signed statement from a responsible official describing whether the increased production is intended for export or the market in the United States.

(3) Transfer to a person in a foreign country—Information requirements. A person requesting a transfer to a person in a foreign country must submit a request to the relevant Agency official that sets forth the following information:

(i) The identity and address of the person seeking to transfer the allowances (&#x201C;transferor&#x201D;);

(ii) The foreign country authorizing the transfer;

(iii) The names, telephone numbers, and email addresses of contact persons for the transferor and for the person in the foreign country;

(iv) The name of the chemical and quantity (in kilograms) of allowable production being transferred; and

(v) The calendar year to which the transfer applies;

(vi) A signed statement from a responsible official requesting that the relevant Agency official revise the number of production allowances the transferor holds such that the aggregate national production in the United States is equal to the lowest of the following three production quantities and identifying which of the following three production quantities was lowest:

(A) The maximum production level permitted in § 84.7(b) in the year of the international transfer minus the quantity of production allowances (in exchange value-weighted kilograms) to be transferred;

(B) The maximum production for the applicable regulated substances that are allowed under applicable law minus the quantity of production allowances (in exchange value-weighted kilograms) to be transferred; or

(C) The average of the United States' actual national production level of the applicable regulated substances for the three calendar years prior to the year of the transfer minus the quantity of production allowances (in exchange value-weighted kilograms) to be transferred.

(4) Review of international transfer request to a foreign country. After receiving a transfer request that meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the relevant Agency official may, at his/her discretion, consider the following factors in deciding whether to approve such a transfer:

(i) Possible economic hardships created by a transfer;

(ii) Potential effects on trade;

(iii) Potential environmental implications; and

(iv) The total quantity of unexpended production allowances held by entities in the United States.

(5) Notice of transfer. The relevant Agency official will review the submitted requests to determine whether the foreign country in which the person is located has enacted or otherwise established the same or similar requirements or otherwise undertaken commitments regarding the production and consumption of regulated substances as are contained in the AIM Act, within a reasonable time frame of the date of its enactment. If it is determined that these conditions are not met, the relevant Agency official will notify the requestor in writing that no transfers to or from the country can occur. If these conditions are satisfied such that transfers to or from the country can occur, the relevant Agency official will consider if the request meets the applicable requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. If the request meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section for transfers from foreign countries and paragraph (b)(3) of this section for transfers to foreign countries, and if the relevant Agency official has not decided to disapprove the request based on consideration of factors listed in paragraph (b)(4) of this section if applicable, the relevant Agency official will notify the person in writing that the appropriate production allowances were either granted or deducted and specify the control period to which the transfer applies. Notifications of production allowances granted or deducted will be provided before January 1 of the calendar year to which the transfer applies.

(i) For transfers from a foreign country, such notification will reflect a revision of the balance of allowances held by the recipient of the transfer to equal the unexpended production allowances held by the recipient of the transfer plus the quantity of allowable production transferred from the foreign country minus an offset of five percent of the quantity transferred. The relevant Agency official will not adjust available allowances until the foreign country's representative has confirmed the appropriate number of allowances were deducted in the foreign country.

(ii) For transfers to a foreign country, such notification will reflect a revision of the balance of production allowances for the transferor such that the aggregate national production of the regulated substance to be transferred is equal to the value the relevant Agency official determines to be the lowest of:

(A) The maximum production level permitted in § 84.7(b) in the year of the international transfer minus the quantity of production allowances transferred and minus an offset of five percent of the quantity transferred; or

(B) The maximum production level for the applicable regulated substances that is allowed under applicable law (in exchange-value weighted kilograms) minus the quantity of production allowances transferred and minus an offset of five percent of the quantity transferred; or

(C) The average of the actual annual U.S. production of the applicable regulated substances for the three years prior to the date of the transfer (in exchange-value weighted kilograms minus the quantity of production allowances transferred and minus an offset of five percent of the quantity transferred).

(6) Revised production limit for previous transferors. If the average actual U.S. production during the three most recent calendar years before the date of the transfer is less than the total allowable U.S. production for the applicable regulated substances permitted in § 84.7(b) for a calendar year for which international transfers are approved to occur, the aggregate allowed national U.S. production of those substances will be reduced by an additional amount beyond a simple deduction of the number of allowances reflected in the notifications under paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(B) of this section. In these circumstances, the relevant Agency official will revise the production limit for each transferor who obtained approval of a transfer of the applicable regulated substances to a foreign country in the same calendar year and notify each transferor of the revision in writing. The amount of the revision will equal the result of the following set of calculations:

(i) The total U.S. allowable production of the applicable regulated substances minus the average of the actual annual U.S. production of those substances during the three most recent calendar years prior to the calendar year of the transfer.

(ii) The quantity of production allowances for the applicable regulated substances transferred by the transferor in that calendar year divided by the total quantity of production allowances for those substances approved for transfer to a person in a foreign country by all the persons approved to make such transfers in that calendar year.

(iii) The result of paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section multiplied by the result of paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section.

(iv) The unexpended production allowances held by the person minus the result of paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section.

(7) Effective date of revised production limits. If a revision is issued under paragraph (b)(6) of this section, the change in production allowances will be effective on the date that the notification is issued.
[86 FR 55208, Oct. 5, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 46896, July 20, 2023]

### § 84.21 Sale or conveyance of regulated substances produced or imported with application-specific allowances.

(a) Sale or conveyance of regulated substances produced or imported using application-specific allowances. (1) As of January 1, 2022, any person receiving an application-specific allowance (application-specific seller) may sell or convey regulated substances produced or imported by expending that allowance to another person within the same application (application-specific purchaser) provided that the relevant Agency official approves the sale or conveyance.

(2) The application-specific seller must submit a claim to the relevant Agency official for approval before the sale or conveyance can take place. The claim must set forth the following:

(i) The identities and addresses of the application-specific seller and the application-specific purchaser;

(ii) The name, telephone numbers, and email addresses of contact persons for the application-specific seller and the application-specific purchaser;

(iii) The amount of each regulated substance being sold or conveyed;

(iv) The cost of the regulated substance being sold or conveyed;

(v) The application for which allowances were allocated and the specific products that the application-specific purchaser plans to produce with the regulated substances; and

(vi) Certification that the regulated substances will be used only for the same application for which the application-specific allowance under which the substances were produced or imported was allocated.

(3) The application-specific purchaser must submit a letter to the relevant Agency official stating that it concurs with the terms of the sale or conveyance as requested by the application-specific seller.

(4) Once the claim is complete, and if EPA does not object to the sale or conveyance, the relevant agency official will issue letters to the application-specific seller and the application-specific purchaser within 10 business days indicating that the transaction may proceed. EPA reserves the right to disallow a transaction if the claim is incomplete, or if it has reason to believe that the application-specific purchaser plans use the regulated substance in anything other than the stated application. If EPA objects to the transaction, the relevant agency official will issue letters to the application-specific seller and the application-specific purchaser stating the basis for disallowing the transaction.

(5) The burden of proof is placed on the application-specific purchaser to retain sufficient records to prove that the sold or conveyed regulated substances are used only for the stated application.

(b) [Reserved]
[86 FR 55208, Oct. 5, 2021]

### § 84.23 [Reserved]

### § 84.25 Required processes to import regulated substances as feedstocks or for destruction.

(a)(1) Petition to import regulated substances for use in a process resulting in transformation or destruction. A person must petition the relevant Agency official for the import of each individual shipment of a regulated substance imported for use in a process resulting in transformation or destruction in order to not expend allowances. A petition is required at least 30 days before the shipment is to arrive at a U.S. port, and must contain the following information:

(i) Name, Harmonized Tariff Schedule code, and quantity in kilograms of each regulated substance to be imported;

(ii) Name and address of the importer, the importer ID number, and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;

(iii) Name and address of the consignee and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;

(iv) Source country;

(v) The U.S. port of entry for the import, the expected date of import, and the vessel transporting the material. If at the time of submitting the petition the entity does not know this information, and the entity receives a non-objection notice for the individual shipment in the petition, the entity is required to notify the relevant Agency official of this information prior to the date of importation (consistent with the definition at 19 CFR 101.1) of the individual shipment into the United States;

(vi) Name and address of any intermediary, including a contact person's name, email address and phone number, who will hold the material before the regulated substances are transformed or destroyed;

(vii) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the responsible party at the facility where the regulated substance will be used in a process resulting in the substance's transformation or destruction;

(viii) An English translation, if needed, of the export license, application for an export license, or official communication acknowledging the export from the appropriate government agency in the country of export;

(ix) The capacity of the container; and

(x) The unique identification number of the container used to transport the regulated substances as part of the petition.

(2) Review of petition to import for use in a process resulting in transformation or destruction. (i) The relevant Agency official will initiate a review of the information submitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and take action within 21 days to issue either an objection notice or a non-objection notice for the individual shipment to the person who submitted the petition.

(ii) The relevant Agency official may issue an objection notice to a petition for the following reasons:

(A) If the relevant Agency official determines that the information is insufficient; that is, if the petition lacks or appears to lack any of the information required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section or other information that may be requested during the review of the petition necessary to verify that the regulated substance is for use in a process resulting in transformation or destruction;

(B) If the relevant Agency official determines that any portion of the petition contains false, inaccurate, or misleading information, or the official has information from other U.S. or foreign government agencies indicating that the petition contains false, inaccurate, or misleading information.

(iii) Within 10 working days after receipt of an objection notice with the basis being &#x201C;insufficient information,&#x201D; the importer may re-petition the relevant Agency official. If no re-petition is taken by the tenth working day after the date on the objection notice, the objection shall become final. Only one re-petition will be accepted for any petition received by EPA.

(iv) Any information contained in the re-petition which is inconsistent with the original petition must be identified and a description of the reason for the inconsistency must accompany the re-petition.

(v) In cases where the relevant Agency official does not object to the petition, the official will issue a non-objection notice.

(vi) If, following EPA's issuance of a non-objection notice, new information is brought to EPA's attention which shows that the non-objection notice was issued based on false, inaccurate, or misleading information, then EPA has the right to:

(A) Revoke and void the non-objection notice from the approval date;

(B) Pursue all means to ensure that the regulated substance is not imported into the United States; and

(C) Take appropriate enforcement and apply administrative consequences.

(3) Timing. (i) An individual shipment authorized through a non-objection notice must be used in the process resulting in its transformation within one year of import.

(ii) An individual shipment authorized through a non-objection notice must be used in the process resulting in its destruction within 120 days of import.

(4)  Quantity. An individual shipment authorized through a non-objection notice may not exceed the quantity (in MTEVe) of the regulated substance stated in the non-objection notice.

(b)(1) Petition to import used regulated substances for disposal by destruction. A person must petition the relevant Agency official for the import of each individual shipment of a used regulated substance imported for purposes of destruction in order to not expend allowances. A petition is required at least 30 working days before the shipment is to leave the foreign port of export, and contain the following information:

(i) Name, Harmonized Tariff Schedule code, and quantity in kilograms of each regulated substance to be imported;

(ii) Name and address of the importer, the importer ID number, and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;

(iii) Name and address of the consignee and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;

(iv) Name and address of any intermediary who will hold regulated substances imported for destruction, and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;

(v) Source country;

(vi) An English translation, if needed, of the export license (or application for an export license) from the appropriate government agency in the country of export;

(vii) The U.S. port of entry for the import, the expected date of import, and the vessel transporting the material. If at the time of submitting the petition the importer does not know this information, and the importer receives a non-objection notice for the individual shipment in the petition, the importer is required to notify the relevant Agency official of this information prior to the entry of the individual shipment into the United States; and

(viii) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the responsible party at the destruction facility.

(2) Review of petition to import for destruction. (i) The relevant Agency official will initiate a review of the information submitted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and take action within 30 working days to issue either an objection notice or a non-objection notice for the individual shipment to the person who submitted the petition.

(ii) The relevant Agency official may issue an objection notice to a petition for the following reasons:

(A) If the relevant Agency official determines that the information is insufficient; that is, if the petition lacks or appears to lack any of the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section or other information that may be requested during the review of the petition necessary to verify that the regulated substance is used;

(B) If the relevant Agency official determines that any portion of the petition contains false, inaccurate, or misleading information, or the relevant Agency official has information from other U.S. or foreign government agencies indicating that the petition contains false, inaccurate, or misleading information;

(C) If allowing the import of the used regulated substance would run counter to government restrictions from either the country of recovery or export regarding regulated substances;

(D) If destruction capacity is installed or is being installed for that specific regulated substance in the country of recovery or country of export and the capacity is funded in full or in part through the Multilateral Fund to the Montreal Protocol.

(iii) Within 10 working days after receipt of an objection notice with the basis being &#x201C;insufficient information,&#x201D; the importer may re-petition the relevant Agency official. If no re-petition is taken by the tenth working day after the date on the objection notice, the objection shall become final. Only one re-petition will be accepted for any petition received by EPA.

(iv) Any information contained in the re-petition that is inconsistent with the original petition must be identified and a description of the reason for the inconsistency must accompany the re-petition.

(v) In cases where the relevant Agency official does not object to the petition, the official will issue a non-objection notice.

(vi) If, following EPA's issuance of a non-objection notice, new information is brought to EPA's attention which shows that the non-objection notice was issued based on false, inaccurate, or misleading information, then EPA and the relevant Agency official has the right to:

(A) Revoke and void the non-objection notice from the approval date;

(B) Pursue all means to ensure that the regulated substance is not imported into the United States; and

(C) Take appropriate enforcement and apply administrative consequences.

(3) Timing. An individual shipment authorized through a non-objection notice must be destroyed within 120 days of import.

(4)  Quantity. An individual shipment authorized through a non-objection notice may not exceed the quantity (in MTEVe) of the regulated substance stated in the non-objection notice.

(5) Proof of destruction. For each individual shipment of a used regulated substance imported with the intent to destroy that substance for which EPA issues a non-objection notice, an importer must submit to the Administrator records indicating that the substance has been destroyed with their quarterly reports in § 84.31(c)(1).

(6) Recordkeeping. The person receiving the non-objection notice from the relevant Agency official for a petition to import used regulated substances must maintain the following records for five years:

(i) A copy of the petition;

(ii) The EPA non-objection notice;

(iii) The bill of lading for the import;

(iv) The U.S. Customs entry number; and

(v) Records demonstrating that the substance has been destroyed in accordance with approved technologies in § 84.29.
[86 FR 55208, Oct. 5, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 46896, July 20, 2023]

### § 84.27 Controlling emissions of HFC-23.

(a) No later than October 1, 2022, as compared to the amount of chemical intentionally produced on a facility line, no more than 0.1 percent of HFC-23 created on the line may be emitted.

(1) Requests for extension. The producer may submit a request to the relevant Agency official to request a six-month extension, with a possibility of one additional six-month extension, to meet the 0.1 percent HCFC-23 limit. No entity may have a compliance date later than October 1, 2023.

(2) Timing of request. The extension request must be submitted to EPA no later than August 1, 2022, for a first-time extension or February 1, 2023, for a second extension.

(3) Content of request. The extension request must contain the following information:

(i) Name of the facility submitting the request, contact information for a person at the facility, and the address of the facility.

(ii) A description of the specific actions the facility has taken to improve their HFC-23 control, capture, and destruction; the facility's plans to meet the 0.1 percent HFC-23 limit including the expected date by which the equipment will be installed and operating; and verification that the facility has met all applicable reporting requirements.

(4) Review of request. Starting on the first working day following receipt by the relevant Agency official of a complete request for extension, the relevant Agency official will initiate review of the information submitted under paragraph (a)(3) of this section and take action within 30 working days. Any grant of a compliance deferral by the relevant Agency official will be made public.

(b) Captured HFC-23 is permitted to be destroyed at a different facility than where it is produced. In such instances, HFC-23 emissions during the transportation to and destruction at the different facility will be incorporated into calculations of whether the producer meets the 0.1 percent standard outlined in paragraph (a) of this section.
[86 FR 55208, Oct. 5, 2021]

### § 84.29 Destruction of regulated substances.

(a) The following technologies are approved by the Administrator for destruction of all regulated substances except for HFC-23:

(1) Cement kiln;

(2) Gaseous/fume oxidation;

(3) Liquid injection incineration;

(4) Porous thermal reactor;

(5) Reactor cracking;

(6) Rotary kiln incineration;

(7) Argon plasma arc;

(8) Nitrogen plasma arc;

(9) Portable plasma arc;

(10) Chemical reaction with hydrogen and carbon dioxide;

(11) Gas phase catalytic de-halogenation; and

(12) Superheated steam reactor.

(b) The following technologies are approved by the Administrator for destruction of HFC-23:

(1) Gaseous/fume oxidation;

(2) Liquid injection incineration;

(3) Reactor cracking;

(4) Rotary kiln incineration;

(5) Argon plasma arc;

(6) Nitrogen plasma arc;

(7) Chemical reaction with hydrogen and carbon dioxide; and

(8) Superheated steam reactor.
[86 FR 55208, Oct. 5, 2021]

### § 84.31 Recordkeeping and reporting.

(a) Recordkeeping and reporting. Any person who produces, imports, exports, transforms, uses as a process agent, destroys, reclaims, or repackages regulated substances or is receiving application-specific allowances must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:

(1) Reports required by this section must be submitted within 45 days of the end of the applicable reporting period, unless otherwise specified.

(2) Reports, petitions, and any related supporting documents must be submitted electronically in a format specified by EPA.

(3) Records and copies of reports required by this section must be retained for five years.

(4) Quantities of regulated substances must be stated in terms of kilograms unless otherwise specified.

(5) Reports are no longer required if an entity notifies the Administrator that they have permanently ceased production, import, export, destruction, transformation, use as a process agent, reclamation, or packaging of regulated substances, but the entity must continue to comply with all applicable recordkeeping requirements.

(b) Producers. Persons (&#x201C;producers&#x201D;) who produce regulated substances must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:

(1) One-time report. Within 120 days of January 1, 2022, or within 120 days of the date that a producer first produces a regulated substance, whichever is later, every producer must submit to the Administrator a report describing:

(i) The method by which the producer in practice measures daily quantities of regulated substances produced;

(ii) Conversion factors by which the daily records as currently maintained can be converted into kilograms of regulated substances produced, including any constants or assumptions used in making those calculations (e.g., tank specifications, ambient temperature or pressure, density of the regulated substance);

(iii) Internal accounting procedures for determining plant-wide production;

(iv) The quantity of any fugitive losses accounted for in the production figures;

(v) A list of any coproducts, byproducts, or emissions from the production line that are other regulated substances; ozone-depleting substances listed in 40 CFR part 82, subpart A; or hazardous air pollutants initially identified in section 112 of the Clean Air Act, and as revised through rulemaking and codified in 40 CFR part 63;

(vi) The estimated percent efficiency of the production process for the regulated substance; and

(vii) A description of any processes that use a regulated substance as a process agent. Within 60 days of any change in the measurement procedures or the information specified in the above report, the producer must submit a report specifying the changes to the relevant Agency official.

(2) Reporting—producers. Within 45 days after the end of each quarter, each producer of a regulated substance must provide to the relevant Agency official a report containing the following information for each facility:

(i) The quantity (in kilograms) of production of each regulated substance used in processes resulting in their transformation by the producer; for any regulated substance that is used in processes resulting in their transformation at a facility that differs from the facility of production, but both facilities are owned by the producer, the name, quantity (in kilograms), and recipient facility of each regulated substance; and the quantity (in kilograms) intended for transformation by a second party;

(ii) The quantity (in kilograms) of production of each regulated substance used in processes resulting in their destruction by the producer; for any regulated substance that is used in processes resulting in their destruction at a facility that differs from the facility of production, but both facilities are owned by the producer, the name, quantity (in kilograms), and recipient facility of each regulated substance; and the quantity (in kilograms) intended for destruction by a second party;

(iii) The quantity (in kilograms) of production of each regulated substance used as a process agent by the producer; for any regulated substance that is used as a process agent at a facility that differs from the facility of production, but both facilities are owned by the producer, the name, quantity (in kilograms), and recipient facility of each regulated substance; and the quantity (in kilograms) intended for use as a process agent by a second party;

(iv) The quantity (in exchange value equivalents) of allowances expended for each regulated substance and the quantity (in kilograms) of each regulated substance produced;

(v) The quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances sold or transferred during the quarter to a person other than the producer for use in processes resulting in their transformation, destruction, or use as a process agent;

(vi) The quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances produced by the producer that were exported by the producer or by other U.S. companies to a foreign country that will be transformed or destroyed and therefore were produced without expending production or consumption allowances;

(vii) For transformation in the United States or by a person in a foreign country, one copy of a transformation verification from the transformer for the specific regulated substance(s) and a list of additional quantities shipped to that same transformer for the quarter;

(viii) For destruction in the United States or by a person in a foreign country of a regulated substance that was produced without allowances, one copy of a destruction verification for each particular destroyer confirming it destroyed the same regulated substance, and a list of additional quantities shipped to that same destroyer for the quarter;

(ix) A list of the entities conferring application-specific allowances from whom orders were placed, and the quantity (in kilograms) of specific regulated substances produced for those listed applications;

(x) The conferral certificate number, generated by the Department of Defense, for any regulated substances produced using application-specific allowances for mission-critical military end uses; and

(xi) For the fourth quarter report only, the quantity of each regulated substance held in inventory on December 31.

(3) Recordkeeping—producers. Every producer of a regulated substance must maintain the following records:

(i) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of each regulated substance produced at each facility;

(ii) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances produced for use in processes that result in their transformation, destruction, or as a process agent;

(iii) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances sold for use in processes that result in their transformation, destruction, or as a process agent;

(iv) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances produced by expending conferred application-specific allowances and quantity sold for use in each listed application;

(v) Copies of invoices or receipts documenting sale of regulated substances for use in processes that result in their transformation, destruction, or as a process agent;

(vi) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of each regulated substance used at each facility as feedstocks or destroyed in the manufacture of a regulated substance or in the manufacture of any other substance, and any regulated substance introduced into the production process of the same regulated substance at each facility;

(vii) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of each regulated substance used at each facility as a process agent;

(viii) Dated records identifying the quantity (in kilograms) of each coproduct and byproduct chemical not a regulated substance produced within each facility also producing one or more regulated substances;

(ix) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of raw materials and feedstock chemicals used at each facility for the production of regulated substances;

(x) Dated records of the shipments of each regulated substance produced at each plant;

(xi) Dated records of batch tests of regulated substances packaged for sale or distribution, including instrument calibration, sample testing data files, audit trail files, and results summaries of both sample test results and quality control test results that are in a form suitable and readily available for review;

(xii) The quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances, the date received, and names and addresses of the source of used materials containing regulated substances which are recycled or reclaimed at each plant;

(xiii) Records of the date, the regulated substance, and the estimated quantity of any spill or release of a regulated substance that equals or exceeds 100 pounds;

(xiv) The transformation verification in the case of transformation, or the destruction verification in the case of destruction, showing that the purchaser or recipient of a regulated substance, in the United States or in another foreign country, certifies the intent to either transform or destroy the regulated substance, or sell the regulated substance for transformation or destruction in cases when allowances were not expended; and

(xv) The certifications from application-specific allowance holders stating that the regulated substances were purchased solely for an application listed in § 84.5(c)(2) and will not be resold for use in a different application or used in any other manufacturing process.

(4) Additional Requirements: producers of HFC-23. (i) Each producer of HFC-23 must include the following additional information in their one-time report in paragraph (b)(1) of this section:

(A) Information on the capacity to produce the intended chemical on the line on which HFC-23 is produced;

(B) A description of actions taken at the facility to control the generation of HFC-23 and its emissions;

(C) Identification of approved destruction technology and its location intended for use for HFC-23 destruction;

(D) A copy of the destruction removal efficiency report associated with the destruction technology; and

(E) Within 60 days of any change in the information specified in the above report, the producer must submit a report specifying the changes to the relevant Agency official.

(ii) Each producer of HFC-23 must include the following additional information in their fourth quarter report:

(A) Annual facility-level data on HFC-23 (in metric tons) on amounts: Emitted; generated; generated and captured for any purpose; generated and captured for consumptive use; generated and captured for feedstock use in the United States; generated and captured for destruction; used for feedstock without prior capture; and destroyed without prior capture.

(B) [Reserved]

(iii) If captured HFC-23 is destroyed in a subsequent control period, producers must submit records to EPA indicating the HFC-23 has been destroyed in their next quarterly report.

(iv) In developing any required report, each producer of HFC-23 must abide by the following monitoring and quality assurance and control provisions:

(A) To calculate the quantities of HFC-23 generated and captured for any use, generated and captured for destruction, used for feedstock without prior capture, and destroyed without prior capture, facilities shall comply with the monitoring methods and quality assurance and control requirements set forth at 40 CFR 98.414 and the calculation methods set forth at 40 CFR 98.413, except 40 CFR 98.414(p) shall not apply.

(B) To calculate the quantity of HFC-23 emitted, facilities shall comply with the monitoring methods and quality assurance and control requirements set forth at 40 CFR 98.124 and the calculation methods set forth at 40 CFR 98.123.

(5) Agency assumption—For any person who fails to maintain the records required by this paragraph, or to submit the reports required by this paragraph, EPA may assume that the person has produced at full capacity during the period for which records were not kept.

(c) Importers. Persons (&#x201C;importers&#x201D;) who import regulated substances must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:

(1) Reporting—importers. Within 45 days after the end of each quarter, an importer of record of a regulated substance must submit to the relevant Agency official a report containing the following information:

(i) Summaries of the records required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section for the previous quarter;

(ii) The total quantity (in kilograms) imported of each regulated substance for that quarter;

(iii) The Harmonized Tariff Schedule codes for the regulated substances or blends imported;

(iv) A list of the application-specific allowance holders from whom orders were placed, number of application-specific allowances conferred, and the quantity (in kilograms) of specific regulated substances imported for those listed applications;

(v) The conferral certificate number, generated by the Department of Defense, for any regulated substances imported using application-specific allowances for mission-critical military end uses;

(vi) The quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances imported for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction;

(vii) The quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances sold or transferred during that quarter to each person for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction;

(viii) The transformation verifications showing that the purchaser or recipient of imported regulated substances intends to transform those substances or destruction verifications showing that the purchaser or recipient intends to destroy the regulated substances;

(vix) Records required under § 84.25(b)(5) documenting proof that material imported for destruction was destroyed; and

(x) For the fourth quarter report only, the quantity of each regulated substance held in inventory on December 31.

(2) Recordkeeping—importers. An importer of a regulated substance must maintain the following records:

(i) The quantity (in kilograms) of each regulated substance imported, either alone or in mixtures, including the percentage of each mixture that consists of a regulated substance;

(ii) The quantity (in kilograms) of used regulated substances imported for destruction under the process described in § 84.25(b);

(iii) The quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances imported for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction;

(iv) The quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances imported and sold for use in processes that result in their transformation or destruction;

(v) The date on which the regulated substances were imported;

(vi) The port of entry through which the regulated substances passed;

(vii) The country from which the imported regulated substances were imported;

(viii) The company that produced the imported regulated substances;

(ix) The Harmonized Tariff Schedule code for the regulated substances imported;

(x) The importer number for the shipment;

(xi) A copy of the bill of lading for the import;

(xii) The invoice for the import;

(xiii) The U.S. Customs entry number;

(xiv) Dated records documenting the sale or transfer of regulated substances for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction;

(xv) Copies of transformation verifications or destruction verifications indicating that the regulated substances will be transformed or destroyed;

(xvi) Dated records of the quantity of regulated substances imported for an application listed at § 84.5(c)(2);

(xvii) The certifications from application-specific allowance holders stating that the regulated substances were purchased solely for an application listed in § 84.5(c)(2) and will not be resold for use in a different application or used in any other manufacturing process;

(xviii) Dated records of batch tests of regulated substances packaged for sale or distribution, including instrument calibration, sample testing data files, audit trail files, and results summaries of both sample test results and quality control test results that are in a form suitable and readily available for review; and

(xix) For any entity subject to an order issued by the Department of Commerce that is receiving allowances for 2022 or 2023, documentation of cash deposit of and final payment of the antidumping and countervailing duty for regulated substances imported.

(3) Transhipments. (i) A person must notify the relevant Agency official of each shipment of a regulated substance that is to be transhipped through the United States. The notification is required at least 30 working days before the shipment is to leave the foreign port of export for importation into the United States as a transhipment, and must contain the following information:

(A) Name, Harmonized Tariff Schedule code, and quantity in kilograms of each regulated substance to be transhipped;

(B) Name and address of the importer, the importer ID number, and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;

(C) Source country; and

(D) The U.S. port of entry, the expected date of importation (consistent with the definition at 19 CFR 101.1), and the vessel transporting the material. If at the time of submitting the petition the importer does not know this information, the importer is required to notify the relevant Agency official of this information prior to the entry of each shipment into the United States.

(ii) The person in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section must notify the relevant Agency official of each shipment of a regulated substance that has been transhipped when it is exported from the United States. The notification is required at least 10 working days after the shipment is exported from the United States, and must contain the following information:

(A) Name, Harmonized Tariff Schedule code, and quantity in kilograms of each regulated substance to be transhipped;

(B) Name and address of the importer, the importer ID number, and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number; and

(C) Date of departure and name of vessel.

(iii) Any person who tranships a regulated substance must maintain records that indicate:

(A) That the regulated substance shipment originated in a foreign country;

(B) That the regulated substance shipment is destined for another foreign country; and

(C) That the regulated substance shipment will not enter U.S. commerce within the United States.

(4) Additional recordkeeping requirements—importers of used regulated substances for destruction. A person receiving a non-objection notice from the relevant Agency official to import used regulated substances for destruction must maintain the following records:

(i) A copy of the petition to import for destruction;

(ii) The EPA non-objection notice;

(iii) A copy of the export license, export license application, or official communication from the appropriate government agency in the country of export;

(iv) An English translation of the document in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section;

(v) U.S. Customs entry documents for the import that must include the Harmonized Tariff Schedule codes;

(vi) The date, amount, and name of the regulated substances sent for destruction, per shipment;

(vii) An invoice from the destruction facility verifying the shipment was received; and

(viii) Records from the destruction facility indicating that the substance has been destroyed.

(5) Recordkeeping requirements—aggregators. A person aggregating a regulated substance prior to destruction, regardless of whether the person is an importer, must:

(i) Maintain transactional records that include the name and address of the entity from whom they received the regulated substance imported for destruction;

(ii) Maintain transactional records that include the name and address of the entity to whom they sent the regulated substance imported for destruction;

(iii) Maintain records that include the date and quantity of the imported regulated substance received for destruction;

(iv) Maintain records that include the date and quantity of the imported regulated substance sent for destruction; and

(v) If the person is the final aggregator of such a regulated substance before the material is destroyed, maintain a copy of records indicating that the substance has been destroyed.

(6) Recordkeeping requirements—vessel owners/operators. A person offloading regulated substances recovered from equipment aboard a marine vessel, aircraft, or other aerospace vehicle while in a U.S. port must maintain records of the company name, vessel name or identifier, location of the appliance, date of recovery, person doing the recovery, the amount of regulated substances recovered and type of refrigerant recovered for each servicing event, and the amount of each regulated substance or blend of regulated substances offloaded and the date it was offloaded.

(7) Additional reporting for importers of record. The importer of record must include the following no later than 10 days if arriving by marine vessel or 5 days for non-marine vessel prior to the date of importation (consistent with the definition at 19 CFR 101.1), via a U.S. Customs and Border Protection-authorized electronic data interchange system, such as the Automated Broker Interface (authorized agents may permissibly file on behalf of an importer of record):

(i) Cargo Description;

(ii) Net weight;

(iii) Container number(s) associated with the shipment, as applicable;

(iv) Gross Weight;

(v) Weight Unit of Measure;

(vi) Port of Entry;

(vii) Scheduled Entry Date;

(viii) Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) code;

(ix) Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) Description;

(x) Origin Country;

(xi) Importer of Record Name and Associated Number;

(xii) Consignee Entity Name;

(xiii) CAS Number(s) of the regulated substance(s) imported and, for regulated substances that are in a mixture, either the ASHRAE numerical designation of the refrigerant or the percentage of the mixture containing each regulated substance;

(xiv) If importing regulated substances for transformation or destruction, a copy of the non-objection notice issued consistent with § 84.25;

(xv) If importing regulated substances as a transhipment, a copy of the confirmation documenting the entity reported the transhipment consistent with paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section; and

(xvi) A certificate of analysis, if the certificate of analysis is not physically accompanying the shipment pursuant to § 84.5(b)(1)(v)).

(8) One-time report—payment of antidumping and countervailing duties. By November 30, 2021, any entity importing regulated substances subject to an antidumping and countervailing duty order issued by the Department of Commerce that is receiving allowances for 2022 or 2023 must provide documentation of cash deposit of and final payment of such duties for the regulated substances imported from January 1, 2017, through May 19, 2021, or provide evidence that those imports were not subject to such duties for those years.

(9) Importer of record information. (i) Any entity that falls under any of the following criteria must submit the information outlined in paragraph (c)(9)(ii) of this section:

(A) That is issued allowances by EPA and anticipates being the importer of record for a shipment of regulated substances; or

(B) That is not issued allowances by EPA, but receives transferred or conferred allowances.

(ii) The following information must be submitted to EPA by the date specified under paragraph (c)(9)(iii) of this section:

(A) Names of all subsidiaries;

(B) Entities commonly owned or majority owned by the same person or persons;

(C) Alternative names under which the entity does business;

(D) Importer of record numbers; and

(E) If providing information under paragraph (c)(9)(ii) (A), (B), or (C) of this section:

(1) The relationship between the allowance holder and each subsidiary and each entity commonly owned or majority owned by the same person or persons, including alternative names under which each listed entity does business; and

(2) If applicable, the identity of owners and their respective percentage of ownership.

(iii) The information outlined in paragraph (c)(9)(ii) of this section must be submitted each year by:

(A) November 15 after being issued allowances for an entity that falls under paragraph (c)(9)(i)(A) of this section; or

(B) within 15 calendar days of receiving a non-objection notice for conferral of application-specific allowances pursuant to § 84.13(h) or for inter-company transfer of consumption allowances pursuant to § 84.19(a) for an entity that falls under paragraph (c)(9)(i)(B) of this section.

(iv) If changes occur to the information previously provided to the Agency, such changes must be transmitted to the Agency at least 21 days prior to expenditure of allowances pursuant to § 84.5(b)(1)(i).

(d) Exporters. Persons (&#x201C;exporters&#x201D;) who export regulated substances must comply with the following reporting requirements:

(1) Reporting requirements—exporters. Within 45 days after the end of each quarter, each exporter of a regulated substance must submit to the relevant Agency official a report containing the following information if such information was not already reported under paragraph (b)(2) of this section:

(i) The names and addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the exports;

(ii) The exporter's Employer Identification Number;

(iii) The quantity of each specific regulated substance exported, including the quantity of regulated substance that is used, reclaimed, or recycled;

(iv) The date on which, and the port from which, the regulated substances were exported from the United States or its territories;

(v) The country to which the regulated substances were exported;

(vi) The Harmonized Tariff Schedule codes for the regulated substances shipped;

(vii) Internal Transaction Numbers for all shipments, except shipments where an exemption from the requirements for the filing of Electronic Export Information (EEI) is provided in 15 CFR part 30, subpart D;

(viii) For persons exporting for transformation or destruction of the regulated substance, the invoice or sales agreement containing language similar to the transformation verifications that importers use, or destruction verifications showing that the purchaser or recipient intends to destroy the regulated substances; and

(ix) For the fourth quarter report only, the quantity of each regulated substance held in inventory on December 31.

(2) Recordkeeping. (i) Exporters must maintain dated records of batch tests of regulated substances packaged for sale or distribution, including instrument calibration, sample testing data files, audit trail files, and results summaries of both sample test results and quality control test results that are in a form suitable and readily available for review.

(ii) [Reserved]

(3) Used regulated substances. Any exporter of used regulated substances must indicate on the bill of lading or invoice that the regulated substance is used.

(e) Second-party transformation and destruction. Any person who transforms or destroys regulated substances produced or imported by another person must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:

(1) Reporting—second-party transformation and destruction. Any person who transforms or destroys regulated substances produced or imported by another person must report the following for each facility:

(i) The names and quantities (in kilograms) of the regulated substances transformed for each calendar year within 45 days after the end of that year; and

(ii) The names and quantities (in kilograms) of the regulated substances destroyed for each calendar year within 45 days after the end of that year.

(2) Recordkeeping—second-party transformation and destruction. Any person who transforms or destroys regulated substances produced or imported by another person must maintain the following:

(i) Copies of the invoices or receipts documenting the sale or transfer of the regulated substances to the person;

(ii) Records identifying the producer or importer of the regulated substances received by the person;

(iii) Dated records of inventories of regulated substances at each plant on the first day of each quarter;

(iv) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of each regulated substance transformed or destroyed;

(v) In the case where regulated substances were purchased or transferred for transformation purposes, a copy of the person's transformation verification;

(vi) Dated records of the names, commercial use, and quantities (in kilograms) of the resulting chemical(s) when the regulated substances are transformed;

(vii) Dated records of shipments to purchasers of the resulting chemical(s) when the regulated substances are transformed; and

(viii) In the case where regulated substances were purchased or transferred for destruction purposes, a copy of the person's destruction verification.

(3) Transformation verifications. Any person who purchases regulated substances for purposes of transformation must provide the producer or importer of the regulated substances with a transformation verification that the regulated substances are to be used in processes that result in their transformation. The verification can only be valid for one year. The transformation verification shall include the following:

(i) Identity and address of the person intending to transform the regulated substances;

(ii) The quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances intended for transformation;

(iii) Identity of shipments by purchase order number(s), purchaser account number(s), location(s), or other means of identification;

(iv) Period of time over which the person intends to transform the regulated substances; and

(v) Signature and title of the verifying person.

(4) Destruction verifications. Any person who purchases or receives regulated substances in processes that result in their destruction shall provide the producer or importer of the regulated substances with a destruction verification that the regulated substances are to be used in processes that result in their destruction. The verification can only be valid for up to 120 days. The destruction verification shall include the following:

(i) Identity and address of the person intending to destroy regulated substances;

(ii) The quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances intended for destruction;

(iii) Identity of shipments by purchase order number(s), purchaser account number(s), location(s), or other means of identification;

(iv) The destruction efficiency at which such substances will be destroyed;

(v) Period of time over which the person intends to destroy regulated substances; and

(vi) Signature and title of the verifying person.

(5) Transformation reporting—one-time report. Within 120 days of January 1, 2022, or within 120 days of the date that an entity first transforms a regulated substance, whichever is later, any person who transforms a regulated substance must provide EPA with a one-time report containing the following information:

(i) A description of the transformation use;

(ii) A description of all technologies and actions taken to minimize emissions of regulated substances;

(iii) The name of the product manufactured in the process;

(iv) A list of any coproducts, byproducts, or emissions from the line on which the regulated substance is to be transformed that are other regulated substances; ozone-depleting substances listed in 40 CFR part 82, subpart A; or hazardous air pollutants initially identified in section 112 of the Clean Air Act, and as revised through rulemaking and codified in 40 CFR part 63;

(v) The estimated annual fugitive emissions by chemical associated with the transformation process;

(vi) The anticipated ratio of regulated substance used for transformation to the amount of end product manufactured; and

(vii) A mass balance equation of the transformation reaction.

(f) All destruction facilities—(1) Destruction—one-time report. Within 120 days of January 1, 2022, or within 120 days of the date that an entity first destroys a regulated substance, whichever is later, every person who destroys regulated substances, whether in a process for destruction or for disposal of a used substance, shall provide EPA with a report containing the following information:

(i) The destruction unit's destruction efficiency;

(ii) The methods used to determine destruction efficiency;

(iii) The methods used to record the volume destroyed;

(iv) The name of other relevant federal or state regulations that may apply to the destruction process; and

(v) Any changes to the information in this paragraph must be reflected in a revision to be submitted to EPA within 60 days of the change(s).

(2) Proof of destruction. Any person who destroys used regulated substances for disposal of that substance, shall provide the importer or aggregator with a record indicating the substance was destroyed within 30 days of the date of destruction.

(g) Process agents—(1) Reporting—one-time report. Within 120 days of January 1, 2022, or within 120 days of the date that an entity first uses a regulated substance as a process agent, whichever is later, any person who uses a regulated substance as a process agent must provide EPA a one-time report containing the following information:

(i) A description of the process agent use that includes details of the percentages of process agent retained within the process, recovered after the process, and emitted or entrained in the final product;

(ii) A description of all technologies and actions taken to minimize emissions of regulated substances;

(iii) The name of the product and byproducts manufactured in the process; and

(iv) The anticipated ratio of process agent emissions to end product manufactured.

(2) Annual report. Any person who uses a regulated substance as a process agent must provide an annual report containing the following information:

(i) Contact information including email address and phone number for a primary and alternate contact person;

(ii) The amount of regulated substance used as a process agent;

(iii) The amount of product and the amount of byproducts manufactured (including amounts eventually destroyed or used as feedstock);

(iv) The stack point source emissions; and

(v) A description of any regulated substance emission reduction actions planned or currently under investigation.

(h) Holders of application-specific allowances.

(1) Reporting. Any person allocated application-specific allowances, except for persons receiving application-specific allowances for mission-critical military end uses, must submit to the relevant Agency official a report by July 31 (covering prior activity from January 1 through June 30) and January 31 (covering prior activity from July 1 through December 31) of each year. The report shall contain the following information:

(i) The quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances acquired through conferring allowances during the previous six months, including a copy of the sales records, invoices, or other records documenting that quantity;

(ii) The quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances acquired through expending allowances and directly imported during the previous six months, including a copy of the sales records, invoices, or other records documenting that quantity;

(iii) The quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances purchased for application-specific use without expending application-specific allowances during the previous six months (i.e., from the open market), including a copy of the sales records, invoices, or other records documenting that quantity;

(iv) The quantity (in kilograms) of inventory on the last day of the previous six-month period of each regulated substance for application-specific use held by the reporting company or held under contract by another company for the reporting company's use, with separate reporting on any inventory of stockpiled HFCs acquired pursuant to § 84.13(b)(1)(iv), including a copy of inventory records documenting that quantity if said quantity is greater than zero;

(v) The quantity (in kilograms) of each regulated substance for application-specific use that was destroyed or recycled during the previous six months;

(vi) The names and contact information of each company to which application-specific allowances were conferred, and the quantity of allowances conferred from each company, and the quantity of regulated substances received from each company;

(vii) In the July 31 report only, a description of plans to transition application-specific use of regulated substances to regulated substances with a lower exchange value or alternatives to regulated substances;

(viii) In the July 31 report only, if a company is requesting additional allowances due to one or more of the circumstances listed in § 84.13(b)(1), the report must include a projection of the monthly quantity of additional regulated substances needed for application-specific use(s) by month in the next calendar year and a detailed explanation, including relevant supporting documentation to justify the additional need;

(ix) In the July 31 report only, if a company is contracting out the manufacturing of defense sprays or metered dose inhalers, or paying another person (whether it is in cash, credit, goods, or services) to perform the servicing of onboard aerospace fire suppression, the name, address, and email address for a representative of the person doing the manufacturing or servicing, and clarification on whether the responses in paragraph (h)(1) of this section apply to the company that is allocated application-specific allowances or the company receiving the contract for manufacturing and/or servicing using application-specific allowances;

(x) If allowances are allocated for a unique circumstance under § 84.13(b)(1)(v), the quantity (in kilograms) of each regulated substance purchased with the intent to build inventory during the prior six-month period, including a copy of records documenting that quantity; and

(xi) The quantity (in kilograms) of each regulated substance that was sold, returned, or otherwise conveyed to another entity during the previous six months, excluding heels as defined in § 84.3, including a copy of records documenting that quantity.

(2) New Requests. Persons requesting application-specific allowances for the first time must submit to EPA the following information:

(i) A description of the use of regulated substances and a detailed explanation of how the use is an application-specific use listed in § 84.13(a);

(ii) Total quantity (in kilograms) of all regulated substances acquired for application-specific use in the previous three years, including a copy of the sales records, invoices, or other records documenting that quantity;

(iii) The name of the entity or entities supplying regulated substances for application-specific use and contact information for those suppliers;

(iv) The quantities (in kilograms) of regulated substances held in inventory for application-specific use as of June 30 of the prior year and June 30 in the current year, including a copy of inventory records documenting that quantity if said quantity is greater than zero;

(v) A description of plans to transition to regulated substances with a lower exchange value or alternatives to regulated substances;

(vi) If a company is requesting additional allowances due to one or more of the circumstances listed in § 84.13(b)(1), the report must include a projection of the monthly quantity of additional regulated substances needed by month in the next calendar year and a detailed explanation, including relevant supporting documentation to justify the additional need; and

(vii) If a company is contracting out the manufacturing of defense sprays or metered dose inhalers, or contracting out the servicing of onboard aerospace fire suppression, the name, address, and email address for a representative of the person doing the manufacturing or servicing, and clarification on whether the responses in paragraph (h)(2) of this section apply to the company that is requesting application-specific allowances or the company receiving the contract for manufacturing and/or servicing using application-specific allowances.

(3) Report for Application-specific Allowances for Mission-critical Military End Use. The Department of Defense must provide a report to EPA biannually by July 31 (covering prior activity from January 1 through June 30) and January 31 (covering prior activity from July 1 through December 31) of each year contains the following information:

(i) The quantity (in kilograms) of each regulated substance acquired for application-specific use by conferring application-specific allowances;

(ii) The quantity of inventory on June 30 of each regulated substance for application-specific use held by the Department of Defense or held under contract by another company for use by the Department of Defense;

(iii) The quantity of each regulated substance requested for mission-critical military end uses in the next calendar year;

(iv) The broad sectors of use covered by current mission-critical military end uses in the next calendar year; and

(v) A description of plans to transition application-specific use(s) to regulated substances with a lower exchange value or alternatives to regulated substances, including not-in-kind substitutes.

(4) Conferral of allowances. Entities who confer application-specific allowances must submit the following information about each conferral to the relevant Agency official prior to conferring allowances:

(i) The identities and addresses of the conferrer and the conferee;

(ii) The names, telephone numbers, and email addresses of contact persons for the conferrer and the conferee;

(iii) The specific application for which application-specific allowances are to be conferred;

(iv) The quantity (in MTEVe) of application-specific allowances being conferred;

(v) The amount of unexpended application-specific allowances of the type and for the year being conferred that the conferrer holds under authority of this subpart as of the date the claim is submitted to EPA;

(vi) A certification from the conferrer and the conferee stating that the regulated substances being acquired, produced, or imported are solely for an application listed in § 84.5(c)(2) and will not be resold for use in a different application or used in any other manufacturing process; and

(vii) For the conferral of allowances for mission-critical military end uses, a conferral certificate number generated by the Department of Defense.

(5) Confirmation of conferral. If the conferrer has sufficient application-specific allowances for the conferral, the conferral will occur and the relevant Agency official will issue a confirmation notice to both the conferrer and conferee documenting the conferral occurred. The relevant agency official will reduce the conferrer's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity conferred. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the conferrer did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the conferral or that the regulated substances produced or imported with conferred allowances are used for anything other than the specific application identified in the conferee's submittal and for the application those allowances were allocated for, the conferrer and conferee will be liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper conferral.

(6) Recordkeeping. Entities who receive via allocation, transfer, or conferral of application-specific allowances, except for mission-critical military end uses, must maintain the following records for five years:

(i) Records necessary to develop the biannual reports;

(ii) A copy of certifications provided to entities when conferring and transferring allowances for application-specific use;

(iii) A copy of confirmation notices when conferring allowances for application-specific use;

(iv) A copy of the annual submission requesting application-specific allowances;

(v) Invoices and order records related to the purchase of regulated substances;

(vi) Records related to the transfer and conferral of application-specific allowances to other entities; and

(vii) Records documenting how regulated substances acquired with application-specific allowances were used.

(7) Recordkeeping—Mission-Critical Military End Uses. The Department of Defense must maintain the following records:

(i) Records necessary to develop the biannual report;

(ii) A copy of certifications provided to entities when conferring allowances for application-specific use;

(iii) A copy of confirmation notices when conferring allowances for application-specific use;

(iv) Invoices and order records related to the purchase of regulated substances;

(v) Records documenting the conferral(s) of application-specific allowances to other entities up to and including the producer and or importer of the chemical;

(vi) Records documenting the transfer of regulated substances to an agent or unit of the Department of Defense where the regulated substance will be used for mission-critical applications; and

(vii) Copies of current and historical plans prescribed by the Office of the Secretary of Defense documenting internal Department of Defense monitoring and review procedures for accuracy.

(i) Reclaimers. Persons (&#x201C;reclaimers&#x201D;) who reclaim regulated substances must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:

(1) One-time report. By February 14, 2022, any person who reclaims a regulated substance must provide a one-time report containing the following information:

(i) The quantity of each regulated substance held in inventory as of December 31, 2021, broken out by whether the regulated substance is recovered, reclaimed, and virgin;

(ii) The name of the laboratory that conducts batch testing and a signed statement from that laboratory confirming there is an ongoing business relationship with the reclaimer;

(iii) The number of batches tested for each regulated substance or blend containing a regulated substance in the prior year; and

(iv) The number of batches that did not meet the specifications in appendix A to 40 CFR part 82, subpart F in the prior year.

(2) Quarterly reporting. Within 45 days after the end of each quarter, each reclaimer of a regulated substance must submit to the relevant Agency official a report containing the quantity of material (the combined mass of regulated substance and contaminants) by regulated substance sent to them for reclamation, the total mass of each regulated substance, and the total mass of waste products.

(3) Annual reporting. Within 45 days after the end of the fourth quarter, each reclaimer of a regulated substance must submit to the relevant Agency official a report containing the quantity of each regulated substance held in inventory onsite as of December 31 broken out by whether the regulated substance is recovered, reclaimed, and virgin.

(4) Recordkeeping. (i) Reclaimers must maintain records, by batch, of the results of the analysis conducted to verify that reclaimed regulated substance meets the necessary specifications in appendix A to 40 CFR part 82, subpart F (based on AHRI Standard 700-2016), including instrument calibration, sample testing data files, audit trail files, and results summaries of both sample test results and quality control test results that are in a form suitable and readily available for review. Such records must be maintained for five years.

(ii) Reclaimers must maintain records of the names and addresses of persons sending them material for reclamation and the quantity of the material (the combined mass of regulated substance and contaminants) by regulated substance sent to them for reclamation. Such records must be maintained on a transactional basis for five years.

(j) Fire suppressant recycling. Persons (&#x201C;recycler&#x201D;) who recycle regulated substances used as a fire suppressant must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:

(1) Quarterly reporting. Within 45 days after the end of each quarter, each recycler of a regulated substance used as a fire suppressant must submit to the relevant Agency official a report containing the quantity of material (the combined mass of regulated substance and contaminants) by regulated substance sent to them for recycling, the total mass of each regulated substance recycled, and the total mass of waste products.

(2) Annual reporting. Within 45 days after the end of the fourth quarter, each recycler of a regulated substance used as a fire suppressant must submit to the relevant Agency official a report containing the quantity of each regulated substance held in inventory onsite broken out by recovered, recycled, and virgin.

(3) Recordkeeping. (i) Recyclers must maintain records of the names and addresses of persons sending them material for recycling and the quantity of the material (the combined mass of regulated substance and contaminants) by regulated substance sent to them for recycling. Such records must be maintained on a transactional basis for five years.

(ii) Recyclers must maintain dated records of batch tests of regulated substances packaged for sale or distribution, including instrument calibration, sample testing data files, audit trail files, and results summaries of both sample test results and quality control test results that are in a form suitable and readily available for review.

(k) Repackagers. Persons who transfer regulated substances, either alone or in a blend from one container to another container prior to sale or distribution or offer for sale or distribution must comply with the following recordkeeping requirements:

(1) Recordkeeping. Repackagers must maintain dated records of batch tests of regulated substances packaged for sale or distribution, including instrument calibration, sample testing data files, audit trail files, and results summaries of both sample test results and quality control test results that are in a form suitable and readily available for review.

(2) [Reserved]

(l) Holders of production for export allowances. Any person allocated production for export allowances must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:

(1) Quarterly reporting. Within 45 days after the end of each quarter, each holder of production for export allowances must submit to the relevant Agency official a report containing the following information:

(i) The quantity (in exchange value equivalent) of production for export allowances expended for each regulated substance and the quantity (in kilograms) of each regulated substance produced for export;

(ii) The quantity (in kilograms) of each regulated substance produced using production for export allowances that was exported;

(iii) The quantity (in kilograms) of each regulated substance produced with production for export allowances held in inventory at the end of the quarter;

(iv) Internal Transaction Numbers for all exports of regulated substances produced with production for export allowances;

(v) The country or countries to which regulated substances produced using production for export allowances were exported.

(2) Annual reporting. Within 45 days after the end of the fourth quarter, each holder of production for export allowances must submit to the relevant Agency official a report containing the following information:

(i) In instances where the regulated HFCs produced using production for export allowances are sold directly to final foreign users, signed certifications by a responsible corporate officer from all foreign customers attesting that any regulated substances produced using production for export allowances will only be used in an application as listed in § 84.13(a). Each certification must include the name and address of the foreign entity, and a contact person's name, email address, and phone number;

(ii) In instances where the regulated HFCs produced using production for export allowances are held at an intermediary prior to receipt by final foreign users, signed certifications by a responsible corporate officer from the intermediary attesting that any regulated substances produced using production for export allowances will only be used in an application as listed in § 84.13(a). Each certification must include the name and address of the foreign entity, and a contact person's name, email address, and phone number; and

(iii) A description of how the use identified in the signed certifications from either the final foreign user or intermediary as appropriate, provided pursuant to paragraph (i) aligns with the applications as listed in § 84.13(a).

(3) Recordkeeping. Entities who receive production for export allowances must maintain the following records for three years:

(i) A copy of all certifications reported pursuant to paragraph (2)(i); and

(ii) Records demonstrating due diligence undertaken to verify and ensure that all regulated substances produced with production for export allowances and exported are being used in an application as listed in § 84.13(a).

(m) Purchasers of HFCs at a government auction. Any entity purchasing regulated substances at a government auction authorized by U.S. Customs and Border Protection must report such purchase to EPA as if they were an import consistent with the applicable provisions under this section, except for the following adjustments.

(i) Quarterly reporting. The date that the regulated substances were released to the purchaser by U.S. Customs and Border Protection or an authorized agent acting consistent with direction from U.S. Customs and Border Protection must be reported as the date on which the regulated substances were imported for purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(v). Unless otherwise unavailable, all requirements of paragraph (c)(1) must be reported to EPA. If a data element is unavailable, the auction purchaser must contact EPA and state that fact in writing by the time they make their filed report.

(ii) Recordkeeping. In addition to the records specified in paragraph (c)(2), the auction purchaser must maintain records of the auction purchase, including the accepted bid, confirmation of payment, certification by the entity that they expended allowances, container composition testing to verify the regulated substances contained within the cylinder, and all other final documentation of the auction purchase. Unless otherwise unavailable, all requirements of paragraph (c)(2) must be met. If a data element is unavailable, the auction purchaser must contact EPA and state that fact in writing by the time they make their filed report.

(iii) Advance notification. The auction purchaser must report the information specified in paragraph (c)(7) electronically in a format specified by EPA within 30 calendar days and prior to the HFCs entering U.S. commerce. The requirement in paragraph (c)(7)(xvi) does not apply if a certificate of analysis is not available at the time of submitting the information in paragraph (c)(7). The entity must complete all required sampling and testing required in this subpart prior to sale in U.S. commerce and maintain such records consistent with 84.31.

(n) Treatment of data submitted under 40 CFR part 84. (1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (i) of this section, 40 CFR 2.201 through 2.215 and 2.301 do not apply to data submitted under this part that EPA has determined through rulemaking to be either of the following:

(i) Emission data, as defined in 40 CFR 2.301(a)(2), determined in accordance with section 114(c) and 307(d) of the Clean Air Act; or

(ii) Data not otherwise entitled to confidential treatment.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (k)(4) of this section, 40 CFR 2.201 through 2.208 and 2.301(c) and (d) do not apply to data submitted under this part that EPA has determined through rulemaking to be entitled to confidential treatment. EPA shall treat that information as confidential in accordance with the provisions of 40 CFR 2.211, subject to paragraph (h)(4) of this section and 40 CFR 2.209.

(3) Upon receiving a request under 5 U.S.C. 552 for data submitted under this part that EPA has determined through rulemaking to be entitled to confidential treatment, the relevant Agency official shall furnish the requestor a notice that the information has been determined to be entitled to confidential treatment and that the request is therefore denied. The notice shall include or cite to the appropriate EPA determination.

(4) A determination made through rulemaking that information submitted under this part is entitled to confidential treatment shall continue in effect unless, subsequent to the confidentiality determination through rulemaking, EPA takes one of the following actions:

(i) EPA determines through a subsequent rulemaking that the information is emission data or data not otherwise entitled to confidential treatment; or

(ii) The Office of General Counsel issues a final determination, based on the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), stating that the information is no longer entitled to confidential treatment because of change in the applicable law or newly discovered or changed facts. Prior to making such final determination, EPA shall afford the business an opportunity to submit comments on pertinent issues in the manner described by 40 CFR 2.204(e) and 2.205(b). If, after consideration of any timely comments submitted by the business, the Office of General Counsel makes a revised final determination that the information is not entitled to confidential treatment, the relevant agency official will notify the business in accordance with the procedures described in 40 CFR 2.205(f)(2).
[86 FR 55201, 55215, Oct. 5, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 46896, July 20, 2023; 90 FR 41723, Aug. 26, 2025]

Editorial Note:At 90 FR 41723, Aug. 26, 2025, in § 84.31, paragraph (m) was added with inaccurate subparagraph designations.

### § 84.33 Auditing of recordkeeping and reporting.

(a) Any person producing, importing, exporting, reclaiming, or recycling for fire suppression a regulated substance, as well as any person receiving application-specific allowances, must arrange for annual third-party auditing of reports submitted to EPA except for persons receiving application-specific allowances for mission-critical military end uses.

(b) For producers, importers, and exporters, auditors must review the inputs the regulated entities used to develop quarterly and annual reports including:

(1) The amount of production and consumption allowances allocated;

(2) The amount, timing, and parties to allowance transfers, and the associated documentation and offset amount;

(3) Records documenting the amount of regulated substances imported, exported, produced, and destroyed, transformed, or sent to another entity for such purpose;

(4) Records documenting any application-specific allowances allocated or conferred from other companies, including the amounts of allowances conferred, regulated substances purchased and/or sold, the specific application for which the regulated substances were provided, and the names, telephone numbers, and email addresses for contact persons for the recipient companies;

(5) The date and the port from which regulated substances were imported or exported;

(6) A copy of the bill of lading and the invoice indicating the quantity of regulated substances imported or exported;

(7) Relevant Harmonized Tariff Schedule codes;

(8) The number and type of railcars, ISO tanks, individual cylinders, drums, small cans, or other containers used to store and transport regulated substances;

(9) The inventory of regulated substances as of the end of the prior calendar year;

(10) A random sample (5 percent or 10, whichever is higher) of batch testing results;

(11) All other reports submitted to EPA under this subpart.

(c) For companies issued application-specific allowances by EPA, auditors must review the following:

(1) Records documenting the amount of application-specific allowances allocated;

(2) The amount, timing, and parties to allowance transfers, and the associated documentation and offset amount;

(3) Records documenting any application-specific allowances conferred to or from other companies, including the amounts of allowances conferred, regulated substances purchased, the specific application for which the regulated substances were provided, and the names, telephone numbers, and email addresses for contact persons for the recipient companies;

(4) Records documenting the total amount of regulated substances purchased for the application-specific end use, and the amount of regulated substances sold to another company for application-specific used;

(5) Inventory of regulated substances at the end of the calendar year; and

(6) All other reports submitted to EPA under this subpart.

(d) For reclaimers and fire suppressant recyclers, auditors must review the following:

(1) The quantity of regulated substances received for reclamation or recycling;

(2) A random sample (5 percent or 10, whichever is higher) of records documenting the names and addresses of persons sending them material and the quantity of the material, measured in the combined mass of refrigerant and contaminants, by regulated substance to them;

(3) Records documenting the quantity of regulated substances reclaimed;

(4) All other reports submitted to EPA under this subpart.

(e) An auditor must meet the following requirements:

(1) The auditor must be a certified public accountant, or firm of such accountants, that is independent of the regulated person. Such an auditor must comply with the requirements for professional conduct, including the independence requirements, and the quality control requirements in 40 CFR 1090.1800(b)(1)(ii), as well as applicable rules of state boards of public accountancy. Such an auditor must also meet the requirements to perform an attestation engagement in 40 CFR 1090.1800(b)(1)(ii).

(2) The auditor must meet the independence requirements in paragraph (f) of this section.

(3) Any auditor suspended or debarred under 2 CFR part 1532 or 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, is not qualified to perform attestation engagements under this section.

(f) All reports required under this paragraph must be signed and certified as meeting all the applicable requirements of this subpart by the independent third-party auditor. The auditor must:

(1) Attest that the information in the audit report is accurate;

(2) Attest that the company submitted all required reports to the Agency or specify which reports are missing and provide an assessment on whether missing reports should have been submitted; and

(3) Obtain a signed statement from a responsible corporate officer that all reports submitted to the EPA for the prior calendar year are complete and accurate.

(g) The following provisions apply to each audit performed under this section:

(1) The auditor must prepare a report identifying the applicable procedures specified in this section along with the auditor's corresponding findings for each procedure. The auditor must submit the report electronically to EPA by May 31 of the year following the compliance period.

(2) The auditor must identify any instances where compared values do not agree or where specified values do not meet applicable requirements under this part.

(3) Laboratory analysis refers to the original test result for each analysis of a product's properties.

(4) For a reclaimer that relies on a third-party laboratory for batch testing, the laboratory analysis consists of the results provided by the third-party laboratory.

(h) The independent third party, their contractors, subcontractors, and their organizations must be independent of the regulated party. All the criteria listed in paragraph (a) of this section must be met by each person involved in the specified activities in this section that the independent third party is hired to perform for a regulated party.

(1) Employment criteria. No person employed by an independent third party, including contractor and subcontractor personnel, who is involved in a specified activity performed by the independent third party under the provisions of this section, may be employed, currently or previously, by the regulated party for any duration within the 12 months preceding the date when the regulated party hired the independent third party to provide services under this section.

(2) Financial criteria. (i) The third-party's personnel, the third-party's organization, or any organization or individual that may be contracted or subcontracted by the third party must meet all the following requirements:

(A) Have received no more than one-quarter of their revenue from the regulated party during the year prior to the date of hire of the third party by the regulated party for any purpose.

(B) Have no interest in the regulated party's business. Income received from the third party to perform specified activities under this section is excepted.

(C) Not receive compensation for any specified activity in this section that is dependent on the outcome of the specified activity.

(ii) The regulated party must be free from any interest in the third-party's business.

(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) Department of Defense data and reports for application-specific allowances for mission-critical military end uses shall be subject to internal Department of Defense monitoring and review for accuracy as prescribed by the Office of the Secretary of Defense. The results of this review shall be reported electronically to EPA by May 31 of the year following the compliance period.
[86 FR 55221, Oct. 5, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 73592, Sept. 11, 2024]

### § 84.35 Administrative consequences.

(a) The relevant agency official may retire, revoke, or withhold the allocation of allowances, or ban a company from receiving future allowance allocations, using the process outlined in paragraph (b) of this section. Applying an administrative consequence to retire, revoke, or withhold allocation of allowances does not, in any way, limit the ability of the United States to exercise any other authority to bring an enforcement action under any applicable law or regulation.

(b) The relevant agency official will provide a company notice if the Agency intends to retire, revoke, or withhold allocation of allowances, or ban the company from receiving future allowance allocations. The notice will specify the conduct leading to the administrative consequence and what the consequence will be. The relevant agency official will provide such notice no less than 30 days before the impending consequence.

(1) After the relevant agency official provides notice of an impending administrative consequence, the company for which such consequence is pending may not expend, transfer, or confer any allowances.

(2) Any company receiving such a notification may provide information or data to EPA on why the administrative consequence should not be taken within 14 days of the date of the EPA's notice.

(3) If EPA does not receive a response within 14 days of the date of the Agency notice of impending administrative consequence, the administrative consequences will be effective on the date specified in the notice.
[86 FR 55221, Oct. 5, 2021]

### § 84.37 Incorporation by reference.

Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at EPA and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact EPA at: U.S. EPA's Air and Radiation Docket; EPA West Building, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC, 202-566-1742. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html or email fr.inspection@nara.gov. The material also may be obtained from the following sources.

(a) Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute (AHRI), 2311 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 400, Arlington, VA 22201; phone: 703.524.8800; website: www.ahrinet.org.

(1) 2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014, 2008 Appendix C for Analytical Procedures for AHRI Standard 700-2014—Normative, copyright 2008; into § 84.5(i).

(2) AHRI RTL OM December 2019, Refrigerant Testing Laboratory Certification Program Operations Manual, copyright 2019; IBR approved for § 84.3.

(3) AHRI General OM—January 2023, General Operations Manual, copyright 2022; IBR approved for § 84.3.

(b) ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, PO Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428; phone: 610.832.9500; email: service@astm.org; website: www.astm.org/.

(1) ASTM D6064-11 (reapproved 2022), Standard Specification for HFC-227ea, 1,1,1,2,3,3,3-Heptafluoropropane (CF3CHFCF3), approved November 1, 2022; IBR approved for § 84.5(i).

(2) ASTM D6231/D6231M-21, Standard Specification for HFC-125 (Pentafluoroethane, C2HF5), approved June 1, 2021; IBR approved for § 84.5(i).

(3) ASTM D6541-21, Standard Specification for HFC-236fa, 1,1,1,3,3,3-Hexafluoropropane, (CF3CH2CF3), approved June 1, 2021; IBR approved for § 84.5(i).

(4) ASTM D6806-02 (reapproved 2022), Standard Practice for Analysis of Halogenated Organic Solvents and Their Admixtures by Gas Chromatography, approved May 1, 2022; IBR approved for § 84.5(i).

(c) International Organization for Standardization (ISO), Chemin de Blandonnet 8, CP 401—1214 Vernier, Geneva, Switzerland; tel.: + 41 22 749 01 11; fax: + 41 22 733 34 30; email: central@iso.org; website: www.iso.org.

(1) ISO/IEC 17025:2017(E), &#x201C;General requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories&#x201D;, Third Edition, published November 2017; IBR approved for § 84.3.

(2) [Reserved]
[88 FR 46898, July 20, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 46898, July 20, 2023]

============================================================
SOURCE: EPA Section 608 Test Topics (official exam content)
URL: https://www.epa.gov/section608/test-topics
FETCHED: 2026-04-09T05:53:01.641Z
============================================================

Test Topics | US EPA

Skip to main content

An official website of the United States government

Here’s how you know

Here’s how you know

Official websites use .gov

A  .gov  website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.

Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

A  lock  (

Lock  A locked padlock

) or  https://  means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.

JavaScript appears to be disabled on this computer. Please  click here to see any active alerts .

Menu

Search

Search

Primary navigation

Environmental Topics

Environmental Topics

Air

Bed Bugs

Chemicals, Toxics, and Pesticide

Emergency Response

Environmental Information by Location

Health

Land, Waste, and Cleanup

Lead

Mold

Radon

Research

Science Topics

Water Topics

A-Z Topic Index

Laws & Regulations

Laws & Regulations

By Business Sector

By Topic

Compliance

Enforcement

Guidance

Laws and Executive Orders

Regulations

Report a Violation

Report a Violation

Environmental Violations

Fraud, Waste or Abuse

About EPA

About EPA

Our Mission and What We Do

Headquarters Offices

Regional Offices

Labs and Research Centers

Planning, Budget, and Results

Organization Chart

EPA History

Breadcrumb

Home

Stationary Refrigeration

Section 608 Technician Certification

Test Topics

Technicians are required to pass an EPA-approved test to earn  Section 608 Technician Certification . The tests are specific to the type of equipment the technician seeks to work on. Learn more about the four tests below.

On this page:

Core

Type 1 (Small Appliances)

Type 2 (High-Pressure)

Type 3 (Low-pressure)

Core

Environmental Impacts

Destruction of ozone by chlorine

Presence of chlorine in

chlorofluorocarbon

chlorofluorocarbon A compound consisting of chlorine, fluorine, and carbon. CFCs are very stable in the troposphere. They move to the stratosphere and are broken down by strong ultraviolet (UV) light, where they release chlorine atoms that then deplete the ozone layer. CFCs are commonly used as refrigerants, solvents, and foam blowing agents. The most common CFCs are CFC-11, CFC-12, CFC-113, CFC-114, and CFC-115. The ozone depletion potential (ODP) for each CFC is, respectively, 1, 1, 0.8, 1, and 0.6. A table of all ozone-depleting substances (http://www.epa.gov/ozone/science/ods/index.html) shows their ODPs, global warming potentials (GWPs), and CAS numbers. CFCs are numbered according to a standard scheme (http://www.epa.gov/ozone/geninfo/numbers.html).

(CFC) and

hydrochlorofluorocarbon

hydrochlorofluorocarbon A compound consisting of hydrogen, chlorine, fluorine, and carbon. The HCFCs are one class of chemicals being used to replace the CFCs. They contain chlorine and thus deplete stratospheric ozone, but to a much lesser extent than CFCs. HCFCs have ozone depletion potentials (ODPs) ranging from 0.01 to 0.1. Production of HCFCs with the highest ODPs are being phased out first, followed by other HCFCs. A table of ozone-depleting substances (http://www.epa.gov/ozone/science/ods/classtwo.html) shows their ODPs, GWPs, and CAS numbers. HCFCs are numbered according to a standard scheme (http://www.epa.gov/ozone/geninfo/numbers.html).

(HCFC) refrigerants

Identification of CFC, HCFC, and

hydrofluorocarbon

hydrofluorocarbon A compound consisting of hydrogen, fluorine, and carbon. The HFCs are a class of replacements for CFCs. Because they do not contain chlorine or bromine, they do not deplete the ozone layer. All HFCs have an ozone depletion potential of 0. Some HFCs have high GWPs. HFCs are numbered according to a standard scheme (http://www.epa.gov/ozone/geninfo/numbers.html).

(HFC) refrigerants (not chemical formulas, but idea that R-12 is a CFC, R-22 is an HCFC, R-134 is an HFC, etc.)

Idea that CFCs have higher ozone-depletion potential (  ODP

ODP A number that refers to the amount of ozone depletion caused by a substance. The ODP is the ratio of the impact on ozone of a chemical compared to the impact of a similar mass of CFC-11. Thus, the ODP of CFC-11 is defined to be 1.0. Other CFCs and HCFCs have ODPs that range from 0.01 to 1.0. The halons have ODPs ranging up to 10. Carbon tetrachloride has an ODP of 1.2, and methyl chloroform's ODP is 0.11. HFCs have zero ODP because they do not contain chlorine. A table of all ozone-depleting substances (http://www.epa.gov/ozone/science/ods/index.html) shows their ODPs, GWPs, and CAS numbers.  ) than HCFCs, which in turn have higher ODP than HFCs

Understanding of the atmospheric effects from the types of refrigerants

Health and environmental effects of stratospheric ozone depletion

Evidence of stratospheric ozone depletion and role of CFCs and HCFCs

Clean Air Act and Montreal Protocol

CFC phaseout date

R-22 phaseout date

Venting prohibition at servicing

Venting prohibition at disposal

Venting prohibition on substitute refrigerants

Maximum penalty under the

Clean Air Act

Clean Air Act A law amended by Congress in 1990. Title VI of the CAA (http://www.epa.gov/ozone/title6/index.html) directs EPA to protect the ozone layer through several regulatory and voluntary programs. Sections within Title VI cover production of ozone-depleting substances (ODS), the recycling and handling of ODS, the evaluation of substitutes, and efforts to educate the public.

Montreal Protocol

Montreal Protocol The international treaty governing the protection of stratospheric ozone. The Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer and its amendments control the phaseout of ODS production and use. Under the Montreal Protocol, several international organizations report on the science of ozone depletion, implement projects to help move away from ODS, and provide a forum for policy discussions. In addition, the Multilateral Fund provides resources to developing nations to promote the transition to ozone-safe technologies. The full text of the Montreal Protocol (http://ozone.unep.org/Publications/MP_Handbook/Section_1.1_The_Montreal_Protocol/) is available from the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP).

(the international agreement to phase out production of ozone-depleting substances)

Section 608 Regulations

Definition/identification of high and low-pressure refrigerants

Definition of system-dependent versus self-contained recovery/recycling equipment

Identification of equipment covered by the rule (all air-conditioning and refrigeration equipment containing CFCs or HCFCs except motor vehicle air conditioners)

Need for third-party certification of recycling and recovery equipment

Standard for reclaimed refrigerant [Air Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute (AHRI) Standard 700-2016]

The sales restriction

The Clean Air Act prohibition on venting

Substitute Refrigerants and oils

Absence of "drop-in" replacements

Incompatibility of substitute refrigerants with many lubricants used with CFC and HCFC refrigerants and incompatibility of CFC and HCFC refrigerants with many new lubricants (includes identification of lubricants for given refrigerants, such as esters with R-134; alkylbenzenes for HCFCs)

Fractionation problem--tendency of different components of blends to leak at different rates

Refrigeration

Refrigerant states (vapor versus liquid) and pressures at different points of refrigeration cycle; how/when cooling occurs

Refrigeration gauges (color codes, ranges of different types, proper use)

Leak Detection

Three R Definitions

Recover

Recycle

Reclaim

Recovery Techniques

Need to avoid mixing refrigerants

Factors affecting speed of recovery (ambient temperature, size of recycling or recovery equipment, hose length and diameter, etc.)

Dehydration Evacuation

Need to evacuate system to eliminate air and moisture at the end of service

Safety

Risks of exposure to refrigerant (e.g., oxygen deprivation, cardiac effects, frost bite, long-term hazards)

Personal protective equipment [gloves, goggles, self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA)-in extreme cases, etc.]

Reusable (or "recovery") cylinders versus disposable cylinders [ensure former Department of Transportation (DOT) approved, know former's yellow and gray color code, never refill latter]

Risks of filling cylinders more than 80 percent full

Use of nitrogen rather than oxygen or compressed air for leak detection

Use of pressure regulator and relief valve with nitrogen

Shipping

Labels required for refrigerant cylinders (refrigerant identification, DOT classification tag)

Type 1 (Small Appliances)

Recovery Requirements

Definition of "small appliance"

Evacuation requirements for small appliances with and without working compressors using recovery equipment manufactured before November 15, 1993

Evacuation requirements for small appliances with and without working compressors using recovery equipment manufactured after November 15, 1993

Recovery Techniques

Use of pressure and temperature to identify refrigerants and detect noncondensables

Methods to recover refrigerant from small appliances with inoperative compressors using a system-dependent or "passive" recovery device (e.g., heat and sharply strike the compressor, use a vacuum pump with non-pressurized recovery container)

Need to install both high and low side access valves when recovering refrigerant from small appliances with inoperative compressors

Need to operate operative compressors when recovering refrigerant with a system-dependent ("passive") recovery device

Should remove solderless access fittings at conclusion of service

Hydrofluorocarbon

Hydrofluorocarbon A compound consisting of hydrogen, fluorine, and carbon. The HFCs are a class of replacements for CFCs. Because they do not contain chlorine or bromine, they do not deplete the ozone layer. All HFCs have an ozone depletion potential of 0. Some HFCs have high GWPs. HFCs are numbered according to a standard scheme (http://www.epa.gov/ozone/geninfo/numbers.html).

(HFC)-134a (also called R-134a) as likely substitute for

chlorofluorocarbon

chlorofluorocarbon A compound consisting of chlorine, fluorine, and carbon. CFCs are very stable in the troposphere. They move to the stratosphere and are broken down by strong ultraviolet (UV) light, where they release chlorine atoms that then deplete the ozone layer. CFCs are commonly used as refrigerants, solvents, and foam blowing agents. The most common CFCs are CFC-11, CFC-12, CFC-113, CFC-114, and CFC-115. The ozone depletion potential (ODP) for each CFC is, respectively, 1, 1, 0.8, 1, and 0.6. A table of all ozone-depleting substances (http://www.epa.gov/ozone/science/ods/index.html) shows their ODPs, global warming potentials (GWPs), and CAS numbers. CFCs are numbered according to a standard scheme (http://www.epa.gov/ozone/geninfo/numbers.html).

(CFC)-12 (also called R-12)

Safety

Decomposition products of refrigerants at high temperatures

Type 2 (High-Pressure)

Leak Detection

Signs of leakage in high-pressure systems (excessive superheat, traces of oil for hermetics)

Need to leak test before charging or recharging equipment

Order of preference for leak test gases [nitrogen alone best, but nitrogen with trace quantity of

hydrochlorofluorocarbon

hydrochlorofluorocarbon A compound consisting of hydrogen, chlorine, fluorine, and carbon. The HCFCs are one class of chemicals being used to replace the CFCs. They contain chlorine and thus deplete stratospheric ozone, but to a much lesser extent than CFCs. HCFCs have ozone depletion potentials (ODPs) ranging from 0.01 to 0.1. Production of HCFCs with the highest ODPs are being phased out first, followed by other HCFCs. A table of ozone-depleting substances (http://www.epa.gov/ozone/science/ods/classtwo.html) shows their ODPs, GWPs, and CAS numbers. HCFCs are numbered according to a standard scheme (http://www.epa.gov/ozone/geninfo/numbers.html).

(HCFC)-22 (also called R-22) better than pure refrigerant]

Leak repair requirements

Allowable leak rate for commercial and industrial process refrigeration

Allowable leak rate for other appliances containing more than 50 pounds of refrigerant

Leak repair recordkeeping

Extensions to the timeframe to repair leaks that exceed the threshold leak rate

Recovery Techniques

Recovering liquid at beginning of recovery process speeds up process

Other methods for speeding recovery (chilling recovery vessel, heating appliance or vessel from which refrigerant is being recovered)

Methods for reducing cross-contamination and emissions when recovery or recycling machine is used with a new refrigerant

Need to wait a few minutes after reaching required recovery vacuum to see if system pressure rises (indicating that there is still liquid refrigerant in the system or in the oil)

Recovery Requirements

Evacuation requirements for high-pressure appliances in each of the following situations:

Disposal

Major versus non-major repairs

Leaky versus non-leaky appliances

Appliance (or component) containing less versus more than 200 pounds

Recovery/recycling equipment built before versus after November 15, 1993

Definition of "major" repairs

Prohibition on using system-dependent recovery equipment on systems containing more than 15 pounds of refrigerant

Refrigeration

How to identify refrigerant in appliances

Pressure-temperature relationships of common high-pressure refrigerants [may use standard temperature-pressure chart--be aware of need to add 14.7 to translate pounds per square inch gauge (psig) to pounds per square inch absolute (psia)]

Components of high-pressure appliances (receiver, evaporator, accumulator, etc.) and state of refrigerant (vapor versus liquid) in them

The idea that hydrocarbons are not approved for retrofits

Safety

Shouldn't energize hermetic compressors under vacuum

Equipment room requirements under American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard 15 (oxygen deprivation sensor with all refrigerants)

Type 3 (Low-pressure)

Leak Detection

Order of preference of leak test pressurization methods for low-pressure systems

Hot water method or built-in system heating/pressurization device such Prevac

Nitrogen

Signs of leakage into a low-pressure system (e.g., excessive purging)

Maximum leak test pressure for low-pressure centrifugal chillers

Leak inspection requirements for appliances that exceed the leak rate

Reporting for chronically leaking appliances

Leak repair requirements

Allowable annual leak rate for commercial and industrial process refrigeration

Allowable annual leak rate for other appliances containing more than 50 pounds of refrigerant

Recovery Techniques

Recovering liquid at beginning of recovery process speeds up process

Need to recover vapor in addition to liquid

Need to heat oil to 130°F before removing it to minimize refrigerant release

Need to circulate or remove water from chiller during refrigerant evacuation to prevent freezing

High-pressure cut-out level of recovery devices used with low-pressure appliances

Recharging Techniques

Need to introduce vapor before liquid to prevent freezing of water in the tubes

Need to charge centrifugals through evaporator charging valve

Recovery Requirements

Evacuation requirements for low-pressure appliances in each of the following situations:

Disposal

Major versus non-major repairs

Leaky versus non-leaky appliances

Appliance (or component) containing less versus more than 200 pounds

Recovery/recycling equipment built before versus after November 15, 1993

Definitions of "major" and "non-major" repairs

Allowable methods for pressurizing a low-pressure system for a non-major repair (controlled hot water and system heating/pressurization device such as Prevac)

Need to wait a few minutes after reaching required recovery vacuum to see if system pressure rises (indicating that there is still liquid refrigerant in the system or in the oil)

Refrigeration

Purpose of purge unit in low-pressure systems

Pressure-temperature relationships of low-pressure refrigerants

Safety

Equipment room requirements under ASHRAE Standard 15 (oxygen deprivation sensor with all refrigerants)

Under ASHRAE Standard 15, need to have equipment room refrigerant sensor for R-123

Stationary Refrigeration

Open Sidenav Menu

Close Sidenav Menu

Section 608 Technician Certification

expand or collapse the child menu

Certification Requirements

Certification Programs for Section 608 Technicians

Test Topics

Steps for Replacing a Lost Section 608 Technician Card

Technician Trade Groups

Resources

Managing Refrigeration and A/C Equipment

expand or collapse the child menu

Prohibition on Venting Refrigerants

Stationary Refrigeration Service Practice Requirements

Stationary Refrigeration Leak Repair Requirements

Refrigerant Sales Restriction

Recordkeeping and Reporting

Regulatory Updates

Recovering, Recycling, and Reclaiming Refrigerants

expand or collapse the child menu

Refrigerant Recovery and Recycling Equipment Certification

Stationary Refrigeration Refrigerant Reclamation Requirements

Summary of Refrigerant Reclamation Trends

Stationary Refrigeration Safe Disposal Requirements

Stationary Equipment Owners

expand or collapse the child menu

For Businesses

For Homeowners

Appliance Disposal

Section 608 Resources

Contact Us about Stationary Refrigeration and Air Conditioning

Contact Us about Stationary Refrigeration and Air Conditioning  to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.

Last updated on December 5, 2025

Assistance

Spanish

Arabic

Chinese (simplified)

Chinese (traditional)

French

Haitian Creole

Korean

Portuguese

Russian

Tagalog

Vietnamese

Discover.

Accessibility Statement

EPA Administrator

Budget & Performance

Contracting

EPA www Web Snapshot

Grants

No FEAR Act Data

Plain Writing

Privacy and Security Notice

Connect.

Data

Inspector General

Jobs

Newsroom

Regulations.gov

Subscribe

USA.gov

White House

Ask.

Contact EPA

EPA Disclaimers

Hotlines

FOIA Requests

Frequent Questions

Site Feedback

Follow.

============================================================
SOURCE: EPA Section 608 Technician Certification Requirements
URL: https://www.epa.gov/section608/section-608-technician-certification-requirements
FETCHED: 2026-04-09T05:53:03.019Z
============================================================

Section 608 Technician Certification Requirements | US EPA

Skip to main content

An official website of the United States government

Here’s how you know

Here’s how you know

Official websites use .gov

A  .gov  website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.

Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

A  lock  (

Lock  A locked padlock

) or  https://  means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.

JavaScript appears to be disabled on this computer. Please  click here to see any active alerts .

Menu

Search

Search

Primary navigation

Environmental Topics

Environmental Topics

Air

Bed Bugs

Chemicals, Toxics, and Pesticide

Emergency Response

Environmental Information by Location

Health

Land, Waste, and Cleanup

Lead

Mold

Radon

Research

Science Topics

Water Topics

A-Z Topic Index

Laws & Regulations

Laws & Regulations

By Business Sector

By Topic

Compliance

Enforcement

Guidance

Laws and Executive Orders

Regulations

Report a Violation

Report a Violation

Environmental Violations

Fraud, Waste or Abuse

About EPA

About EPA

Our Mission and What We Do

Headquarters Offices

Regional Offices

Labs and Research Centers

Planning, Budget, and Results

Organization Chart

EPA History

Breadcrumb

Home

Stationary Refrigeration

Section 608 Technician Certification

Section 608 Technician Certification Requirements

Información relacionada en español

On this page:

Requirements

Types of Certifications

Requirements  EPA regulations ( 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F ) under Section 608 of the  Clean Air Act  require that  technicians  who maintain, service, repair, or dispose of equipment that could release refrigerants into the atmosphere must be certified.  Technicians are required to pass an EPA-approved test to earn Section 608 Technician Certification. The tests are specific to the type of equipment the technician seeks to work on. Tests must be administered by an EPA-approved certifying organization. Section 608 Technician Certification credentials do not expire. Core tests taken as an open book exam cannot be used to get your Universal Certification. The core test must be taken as a proctored exam in order to attain Universal Certification.

EPA regulations ( 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F ) under Section 608 of the  Clean Air Act  define a "technician" as an individual who performs any of the following activities:

Attaching and detaching hoses and gauges to and from an appliance to measure pressure within the appliance.  Adding refrigerant to or removing refrigerant from an appliance.  Any other activity that violates the integrity of a  motor vehicle air conditioner (MVAC)-like appliance  or  small appliance  (other than disposal).

Apprentices  are exempt from certification requirements provided they are closely and continually supervised by a certified technician.  Types of Certifications  EPA has developed four types of certification:

For servicing small appliances (Type I).  For servicing or disposing of high- or very high-pressure appliances, except small appliances and MVACs (Type II).  For servicing or disposing of low-pressure appliances (Type III).  For servicing all types of equipment (Universal).

The tests for each of these certification types cover different  topics .

Related Resources

Fact Sheet: How the revised 608 Rule affects technicians

Stationary Refrigeration

Open Sidenav Menu

Close Sidenav Menu

Section 608 Technician Certification

expand or collapse the child menu

Certification Requirements

Certification Programs for Section 608 Technicians

Test Topics

Steps for Replacing a Lost Section 608 Technician Card

Technician Trade Groups

Resources

Managing Refrigeration and A/C Equipment

expand or collapse the child menu

Prohibition on Venting Refrigerants

Stationary Refrigeration Service Practice Requirements

Stationary Refrigeration Leak Repair Requirements

Refrigerant Sales Restriction

Recordkeeping and Reporting

Regulatory Updates

Recovering, Recycling, and Reclaiming Refrigerants

expand or collapse the child menu

Refrigerant Recovery and Recycling Equipment Certification

Stationary Refrigeration Refrigerant Reclamation Requirements

Summary of Refrigerant Reclamation Trends

Stationary Refrigeration Safe Disposal Requirements

Stationary Equipment Owners

expand or collapse the child menu

For Businesses

For Homeowners

Appliance Disposal

Section 608 Resources

Contact Us about Stationary Refrigeration and Air Conditioning

Contact Us about Stationary Refrigeration and Air Conditioning  to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.

Last updated on March 23, 2026

Assistance

Spanish

Arabic

Chinese (simplified)

Chinese (traditional)

French

Haitian Creole

Korean

Portuguese

Russian

Tagalog

Vietnamese

Discover.

Accessibility Statement

EPA Administrator

Budget & Performance

Contracting

EPA www Web Snapshot

Grants

No FEAR Act Data

Plain Writing

Privacy and Security Notice

Connect.

Data

Inspector General

Jobs

Newsroom

Regulations.gov

Subscribe

USA.gov

White House

Ask.

Contact EPA

EPA Disclaimers

Hotlines

FOIA Requests

Frequent Questions

Site Feedback

Follow.

============================================================
SOURCE: EPA Section 608 Official Q&A
URL: https://www.epa.gov/section608/epas-refrigerant-management-program-questions-and-answers-section-608-certified
FETCHED: 2026-04-09T05:53:04.265Z
============================================================

EPA’s Refrigerant Management Program: Questions and Answers for Section 608 Certified Technicians | US EPA

Skip to main content

An official website of the United States government

Here’s how you know

Here’s how you know

Official websites use .gov

A  .gov  website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.

Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

A  lock  (

Lock  A locked padlock

) or  https://  means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.

JavaScript appears to be disabled on this computer. Please  click here to see any active alerts .

Menu

Search

Search

Primary navigation

Environmental Topics

Environmental Topics

Air

Bed Bugs

Chemicals, Toxics, and Pesticide

Emergency Response

Environmental Information by Location

Health

Land, Waste, and Cleanup

Lead

Mold

Radon

Research

Science Topics

Water Topics

A-Z Topic Index

Laws & Regulations

Laws & Regulations

By Business Sector

By Topic

Compliance

Enforcement

Guidance

Laws and Executive Orders

Regulations

Report a Violation

Report a Violation

Environmental Violations

Fraud, Waste or Abuse

About EPA

About EPA

Our Mission and What We Do

Headquarters Offices

Regional Offices

Labs and Research Centers

Planning, Budget, and Results

Organization Chart

EPA History

Breadcrumb

Home

Stationary Refrigeration

EPA’s Refrigerant Management Program: Questions and Answers for Section 608 Certified Technicians

General Questions :

Is section 608 certification required to service, repair, and install refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment?

Yes. Certification is required for anybody who in the course of maintenance, service, or repair of an appliance could be reasonably expected to violate the integrity of the refrigerant circuit and therefore release refrigerants into the environment.

Is section 608 certification required to dispose of appliances?

Section 608 technician certification is required to dispose of appliances, except for small appliances (an appliance that is fully manufactured, charged, and hermetically sealed in a factory with five pounds or less of refrigerant), motor vehicle air conditioners (MVACs), or MVAC-like appliances.

Can my employer send another person to purchase refrigerant for me?

Yes. You or your employer can send a coworker to purchase refrigerant, or designate somebody else to receive delivery on your behalf. The purchasing account holder is the buyer, and anyone purchasing refrigerant under that account is allowed to conduct the transaction, provided that the account holder can demonstrate they are a certified technician or currently employ a certified technician.

What type of documentation do I need to purchase refrigerant?

Refrigerant sellers must verify that the buyer is a certified technician or currently employs a certified technician. Documentation such as a copy of a technician certification card, a technician certificate issued by the certification program, or documentation that demonstrates that the buyer currently employs a certified technician (if the buyer is an employer) is acceptable.

What should I do if I believe that someone is using my technician certification card to purchase refrigerant without my permission?

If you believe someone is using your technician certification card to purchase refrigerant without your permission, contact your refrigerant supplier and let them know that this person is not your employer or employee, and is not purchasing refrigerant for your use. You can also report possible  violations  to EPA.

Can I sell used refrigerant that I recover from customers’ appliances?

No. Before used refrigerant can be sold it must be reclaimed by an EPA certified reclaimer. Depending on the type of refrigerant and the level of contamination, EPA certified reclaimers and some distributors may offer money for it.  However, you may charge used refrigerant that you recovered from an appliance into another appliance owned by the same customer.

Am I required to keep a copy of my certification?

Yes. As a section 608 certified technician who installs, services, and/or disposes of appliances, you are required to keep a copy of your certification at your place of business and keep it until three years after you are no longer operating as a technician.

Do I need to carry my certification card with me when I am performing refrigerant work?

No. EPA does not require you to carry your certification card with you when servicing appliances, although some customers may inquire about whether you have proof of certification. You may want to consider keeping a picture of your certification on your phone in case asked by a customer.

Is a section 608 certification required to pull the “heel” or residue out of an empty cylinders of refrigerant?

No. Cylinders that store or transport bulk refrigerant are not considered appliances.

Can I use my certification card to purchase refrigerant for a person that is not certified?

No. It is a violation of EPA’s regulations to sell, distribute, or offer for sale or distribution a refrigerant for use in an appliance, unless the recipient is, or employs, a certified technician.

Questions on Servicing Appliances with 50 or More Pounds of Ozone-Depleting Refrigerant:

What is the difference between a leak inspection, an initial verification test, and a follow-up verification test?

A  leak inspection  is the examination of an appliance to determine the location of refrigerant leaks. Methods include ultrasonic tests, gas-imaging cameras, bubble tests, or the use of a leak detection device operated and maintained according to manufacturer guidelines. Methods that determine whether the appliance is leaking - but do not determine the location of a leak - such as standing pressure/vacuum decay tests, sight glass checks, viewing receiver levels, pressure checks, and charging charts  are not  leak inspections, and must be used in conjunction with methods that can determine the location of a leak.  An  initial verification test  is a check to make sure that repairs were successful before refrigerant is added back into the appliance. This test is performed after the leak has been located and repairs are made, but typically before the appliance (or isolated section) has been recharged and returned to normal operating conditions.  A  follow-up verification test  is done within 30 days of the appliance's returning to normal operating characteristics and conditions, except in cases where sound professional judgment dictates that these tests will be more meaningful if performed prior to the return to normal operating characteristics and conditions.  Leak inspections, initial verification tests, and follow-up verification tests are only required when an appliance with 50 or more pounds of ozone-depleting refrigerant exceeds the threshold leak rate. They are not required for smaller appliances, or appliances that do not leak above the threshold rate, or appliances containing substitute refrigerant, such as HFCs.

What information am I, as certified technician, required to provide to customers?

If you are servicing appliances normally containing 50 or more pounds of ozone-depleting refrigerant, you must provide the customer an invoice or other documentation showing the amount of refrigerant added to the appliance.  When you conduct leak inspections on appliances that contain 50 or more pounds of ozone-depleting refrigerant, you must provide the customer with documentation that includes the date of inspection; the method(s) used to conduct the leak inspection; a list of the location(s) of each leak that was identified; and a certification that all visible and accessible parts of the appliance were inspected.  When you conduct initial or follow-up verification tests on appliances that contain 50 or more pounds of ozone-depleting refrigerant, you must provide the customer documentation of the dates and results of all initial and follow-up verification tests. The records must include the location of the appliance; the date(s) of the verification tests; the location(s) of all repaired leaks that were tested; the type(s) of verification test(s) used; and the results of those tests.  While technicians are not required to provide other records, such as the full charge of the appliance, and the results of leak rate calculations, your customers are required to maintain that information for appliances that contain 50 or more pounds of ozone-depleting refrigerant. Owners and operators of AC and refrigeration equipment may contract technicians to perform these services. You should consider having an upfront conversation with your clients about whether they expect you to provide any additional records.  Learn more about the other  reporting and recordkeeping requirements  under the refrigerant management regulations.

Questions on Servicing Appliances with 5 to 50 or More Pounds of Ozone-Depleting and Substitute Refrigerant:

What records am I required to keep?

Technicians who dispose of mid-sized appliances with 5-50 pounds of refrigerant (for example, residential split systems), must keep records of:  · The location, date of recovery, and type of refrigerant recovered for each disposed appliance;  · The quantity of refrigerant, by type, recovered from disposed appliances in each calendar month; and  · The quantity of refrigerant, and type, transferred for reclamation or destruction, the person to whom it was transferred, and the date of the transfer.

Can my employer keep the records for me?

Yes. While it is the technician’s responsibility to ensure that records are kept, the technician’s employer can keep records for their employees.

Is there a required format for the records on refrigerant recovered from mid-sized appliances prior to disposal?

No. These records may be kept in the format most convenient for the technician. They may be kept electronically or as paper records. Records must be kept for three years.

Is technician certification required to install an R-410A mini-split?

Yes. Adding or removing refrigerant from a mini-split as part of installation, and/or connecting or disconnecting hoses or pre-charged lines requires a section 608 technician certification. Activities reasonably expected to violate the integrity of the refrigerant circuit include but are not limited to: Attaching or detaching hoses and gauges to and from the appliance; adding or removing refrigerant; adding or removing components; and cutting the refrigerant line.

Questions on Becoming a Certified Technician:

Can students in refrigeration or air conditioning courses perform work on appliances in a classroom or school laboratory prior to obtaining certification?

Yes. Performing laboratory course work prior to certification is allowed. However, training performed on the job, and training that is not part of formal, course-driven laboratory work is considered maintenance, service, repair or disposal, and requires an individual to be certified, or to be a registered apprentice. Apprentices must be closely and continually supervised by a certified technician.

Can apprentices work on appliances prior to obtaining certification?

Apprentices can work on appliances prior to certification if they are closely and continuously supervised by a technician that has the appropriate section 608 certification(s) for the type of appliance that is being serviced. To qualify as an apprentice, you must be currently registered as an apprentice in maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances with the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship (or a State Apprenticeship Council recognized by the Office of Apprenticeship). A person may only be an apprentice for two years from the date of first registering with that office.

Does EPA require an "R-410A Certification”?

EPA requires a section 608 certification regardless of refrigerant type based on the type of appliance (Type I, Type II, Type III, or Universal). However, EPA does not have a certification that is exclusively focused on R-410A. Because R-410A differs from R-22 in several respects, including operating pressure, some trade schools offered classes and certifications for R-410A specifically. These are not equivalent to a section 608 certification.

How do I get a replacement certification card?

Contact the company that certified you. The company’s name is on the certification card.  Find their contact information .

I lost my card and don’t remember who certified me.

If you cannot remember the name of the organization, try to find a certificate, plaque, receipt, cancelled check, credit card record, study materials, test scores, resume, job application, or document with the name of the organization or a copy of the card on it. Other ways to identify which company certified you include:

If your state environmental and/or licensing authorities require that you register or document your certification, they might have a copy of your card or a record of the name of the certification organization.  Check with a present or former refrigerant supplier to see if they have a copy of your card or a notation with the name of the certifying organization.  Check with a present or past employer to see if they have a copy of your card or a notation with the name of the organization.  If you are in contact with anyone who took the test with you, ask them to examine their card for the name of the organization.  If you were certified through a former employer and they still employ anyone who took the test around the same time as you, ask them to inquire with one or more of those individuals concerning the organization name on their certification card.  Check with the business, institution, or organization where you took the examination to ask them which company's test they used when you were certified.

You can also call some of the major organizations to see if they have a record of your certification. Among the largest programs are ESCO Institute, Ferris State University, Mainstream Engineering Corporation, Refrigeration Environmental Protection Association (REPA), Refrigeration Service Engineers Society, Universal Technical Institute, and Video General, Inc. (VGI).

I lost my card and the certification company is out of business.

If you have any documentation of your certification (see the complete list in the previous question) you can submit it for review to one of the presently approved testing and certification organizations that have agreed to issue replacement cards.  The organizations that issue replacement cards are ESCO Institute, Ferris State University, and Refrigeration Environmental Protection Association (REPA). Their contact information is  available in the fact sheet on lost cards.  Their information is also on the  list of approved Section 608 programs . If you have no documentation of your certification, you will need to make arrangements with an approved Section 608 program to retake the exam in order to receive a valid card.

How can I find out where to take the test?

An alphabetical list of EPA approved Section 608 testing and certification organizations, with contact information for each organization,  is available . The addresses and telephone numbers on this list are for the program headquarters. However, many of these programs have test locations/testing arrangements throughout the United States. Several of the entries on our list also have a link to their program website. These websites sometimes have information concerning test dates and locations. You may also look for entries on our list with the notation "locations nationwide" to the right of the program name. In addition, some organizations allow for online testing. Look for “remote testing available” to the right of the program name. Some organizations also indicate to the right of their entry the levels for which they test.

How do I retrieve my test scores?

The EPA does not administer the tests, and we do not issue test results or certification cards. The tests are administered by EPA approved Section 608 testing and certification organizations and their proctors. You should contact the business, organization, or institution where you took the exam to ask them which program’s test they used for your exam. Once you know the name of the testing organization, contact the organization directly to let them know that you did not receive your scores. An alphabetical list of approved Section 608 organizations, with contact information for each organization,

is available

. The testing organization can investigate the matter further.

Please also note that regulations allow testing organizations up to 30 days from the date of the test to issue test results and certification cards.

Does EPA have a database of certified technicians?

The EPA does not maintain a database of all certified technicians. Testing organizations keep track of who they certify. Since 2017, non-federal programs are also required to post a list of individuals they certify on their program website.

Does EPA have study guides for the technician certification exam?

The EPA does not provide a study guide. Some of the test topics that you might expect to encounter for each level of Section 608 certification are also  available for review . You may also find it useful to review information on our website for "Stationary Refrigeration" at  https://www.epa.gov/section608  to get a summary of regulatory updates.  Some testing organizations also have study guides for sale. A number of programs have guides specifically geared to individuals who have not taken the exam in a long time. There are also free practice questions and study guides on some of the websites.

How do I receive a Universal certification?

In order to receive Universal certification, an individual must pass the examinations at all levels for stationary refrigeration and cooling equipment under closed book, secure, proctored conditions through an EPA approved Section 608 testing and certification organization

How do I become an exam proctor?

If you wish to test individuals, you may contact any of the EPA approved Section 608 testing and certification organizations to become a proctor. Proctors may conduct training and may administer the test for approved organizations. However, proctors may not issue certification cards, and do not have all the regulatory responsibilities of an approved organization such as recordkeeping, reporting to the EPA, test compilation, or card replacement. An alphabetical list of approved organizations, with contact information for each organization,  is available . The addresses and telephone numbers on this list are for the program headquarters. Several of the entries on our list also have links to the program website.

Other Information on the Section 608 Program for Technicians

More information is available on the following topics:

What is Section 608 Technician Certification and who needs to be certified?

What information will I be tested on?

Where can I get certified?

How can I replace a lost card?

Stationary Refrigeration

Open Sidenav Menu

Close Sidenav Menu

Section 608 Technician Certification

expand or collapse the child menu

Certification Requirements

Certification Programs for Section 608 Technicians

Test Topics

Steps for Replacing a Lost Section 608 Technician Card

Technician Trade Groups

Resources

Managing Refrigeration and A/C Equipment

expand or collapse the child menu

Prohibition on Venting Refrigerants

Stationary Refrigeration Service Practice Requirements

Stationary Refrigeration Leak Repair Requirements

Refrigerant Sales Restriction

Recordkeeping and Reporting

Regulatory Updates

Recovering, Recycling, and Reclaiming Refrigerants

expand or collapse the child menu

Refrigerant Recovery and Recycling Equipment Certification

Stationary Refrigeration Refrigerant Reclamation Requirements

Summary of Refrigerant Reclamation Trends

Stationary Refrigeration Safe Disposal Requirements

Stationary Equipment Owners

expand or collapse the child menu

For Businesses

For Homeowners

Appliance Disposal

Section 608 Resources

Contact Us about Stationary Refrigeration and Air Conditioning

Contact Us about Stationary Refrigeration and Air Conditioning  to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.

Last updated on February 24, 2026

Assistance

Spanish

Arabic

Chinese (simplified)

Chinese (traditional)

French

Haitian Creole

Korean

Portuguese

Russian

Tagalog

Vietnamese

Discover.

Accessibility Statement

EPA Administrator

Budget & Performance

Contracting

EPA www Web Snapshot

Grants

No FEAR Act Data

Plain Writing

Privacy and Security Notice

Connect.

Data

Inspector General

Jobs

Newsroom

Regulations.gov

Subscribe

USA.gov

White House

Ask.

Contact EPA

EPA Disclaimers

Hotlines

FOIA Requests

Frequent Questions

Site Feedback

Follow.

============================================================
SOURCE: EPA Section 608 Regulatory Updates (2025-2026)
URL: https://www.epa.gov/section608/regulatory-updates-section-608-refrigerant-management-regulations
FETCHED: 2026-04-09T05:53:05.479Z
============================================================

Regulatory Updates: Section 608 Refrigerant Management Regulations | US EPA

Skip to main content

An official website of the United States government

Here’s how you know

Here’s how you know

Official websites use .gov

A  .gov  website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.

Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

A  lock  (

Lock  A locked padlock

) or  https://  means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.

JavaScript appears to be disabled on this computer. Please  click here to see any active alerts .

Menu

Search

Search

Primary navigation

Environmental Topics

Environmental Topics

Air

Bed Bugs

Chemicals, Toxics, and Pesticide

Emergency Response

Environmental Information by Location

Health

Land, Waste, and Cleanup

Lead

Mold

Radon

Research

Science Topics

Water Topics

A-Z Topic Index

Laws & Regulations

Laws & Regulations

By Business Sector

By Topic

Compliance

Enforcement

Guidance

Laws and Executive Orders

Regulations

Report a Violation

Report a Violation

Environmental Violations

Fraud, Waste or Abuse

About EPA

About EPA

Our Mission and What We Do

Headquarters Offices

Regional Offices

Labs and Research Centers

Planning, Budget, and Results

Organization Chart

EPA History

Breadcrumb

Home

Stationary Refrigeration

Managing Refrigeration and A/C Equipment

Regulatory Updates: Section 608 Refrigerant Management Regulations

On this page:

Recent Regulatory Developments

2020 Rule Summary

2016 Rule Summary

Recent Regulatory Developments  The  Final Rule on Listing of Substitutes for Refrigeration and Air Conditioning and Revision of the Venting Prohibition for Certain Refrigerant Substitutes  exempts four hydrocarbon substitute refrigerants from the venting prohibition based on current evidence that their release does not pose a threat to the environment.  The  Final Rule: Revision of the Venting Prohibition for Specific Refrigerant Substitutes  exempts two substitute refrigerants from the venting prohibition in certain end-uses. Specifically, these are isobutane (R-600a) and R-441A in household refrigerators, freezers, and combination refrigerators and freezers, and propane (R-290) in retail food refrigerators and freezers (stand-alone units only).  On February 26, 2020, EPA Administrator Andrew R. Wheeler signed the final rule  Protection of Stratospheric Ozone: Revisions to the Refrigerant Management Program’s Extension to Substitutes.  This action rescinds the November 18, 2016, extension of the leak repair provisions to appliances using substitute refrigerants, such has hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). The leak repair requirements and associated recordkeeping and reporting provisions prescribed in EPA’s November 2016 rulemaking for appliances containing substitutes no longer apply. At this time, the leak repair provisions only apply to ozone-depleting refrigerants. This action does not rescind the applicability of the other provisions that were extended to certain substitute refrigerants (e.g., HFCs) such as the sales restriction and technician certification requirement, safe disposal requirements, evacuation requirements, reclamation standards, and requirement to use certified recovery equipment. This action also does not affect any of the requirements for appliances containing ozone-depleting refrigerants.  2020 Rule Summary  This rule modifies refrigerant management regulations for substitute refrigerants, such as HFCs. This does not affect the current requirements for ozone-depleting refrigerants and does not affect the Clean Air Act prohibition on intentionally venting or otherwise knowingly releasing ozone-depleting and non-ozone depleting refrigerant (including HFCs) into the environment.

Effective April 10, 2020, appliances with 50 or more pounds of substitute refrigerants are no longer subject to the requirements at 40 CFR 82.157, including:  Repairing appliances that leak above a certain level and conducting verification tests on repairs;  Periodically inspecting for leaks;  Reporting chronically leaking appliances to the EPA;  Retrofitting or retiring appliances that are not repaired; and  Maintaining related records.

EPA is not rescinding the other refrigerant management provisions that were extended to non-ozone depleting refrigerants, including:  Anyone purchasing refrigerant for use in a stationary appliance or handling refrigerants (such as air-conditioning and refrigeration service technicians) must be section 608-certified;  Anyone removing refrigerant from a refrigeration or air-conditioning appliance must evacuate refrigerant to a set level using certified refrigerant recovery equipment before servicing or disposing of the appliance;  The final disposer (such as scrap recyclers or landfills) of small appliances, like refrigerators and window air conditioners, must ensure and document that refrigerant is recovered; and  All used refrigerant must be reclaimed to industry purity standards before it can be sold to another appliance owner.

Key Documents

Federal Register link to 2020 Final Rule

Federal Register link to 2018 Proposed Rule

Docket link

Fact Sheets

Fact Sheet: Overview of the Section 608 Refrigerant Management Program

Fact Sheet: How the Revised 608 Rule Affects Supermarkets and Property and Facility Managers

Fact Sheet: How the Revised 608 Rule Affects Refrigerant Distributors

Fact Sheet: How the Revised 608 Rule Affects Small Appliance Recyclers

Fact Sheet: How the Revised 608 Rule Affects Reclaimers

Fact Sheet: How the Revised 608 Rule Affects Technicians

Fact Sheet: How the Revised 608 Rule Affects Local Governments Involved in Appliance Disposal

2016 Rule Summary  On November 18, 2016, EPA issued a final rule updating its refrigerant management regulations. Amongst other things, that rule extended the refrigerant management requirements to common substitutes like HFCs. As noted above, the leak repair provisions for appliances containing substitute refrigerants no longer apply. Key changes include:  1) Extended the requirements of the Refrigerant Management Program to cover substitute refrigerants, such as HFCs. Note that EPA has previously exempted some substitutes from the Section 608 venting prohibition through previous rules. Such substitutes are also exempt from the requirements of this rule.  2) Lowered the leak rate thresholds that trigger the duty to repair refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment containing 50 or more pounds of refrigerant.

Lowered from 35% to 30% for industrial process refrigeration (IPR)  Lowered from 35% to 20% for commercial refrigeration equipment  Lowered from 15% to 10% for comfort cooling equipment

3) Required quarterly/annual leak inspections or continuous monitoring devices for refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment that have exceeded the threshold leak rate.  4) Required owners/operators to submit reports to EPA if systems containing 50 or more pounds of refrigerant leak 125% or more of their full charge in one calendar year.  5) Extended the sales restriction to HFCs and other non-exempt substitutes, with the exception of small cans (containing 2 pounds or less) of non-exempt substitutes (e.g., primarily HFC-134a) for motor vehicle air conditioner servicing. These small cans can continue to be sold without technician certification so long as the small cans have a self-sealing valve to reduce refrigerant releases.  6) Required technicians to keep a record of refrigerant recovered during system disposal from systems with a charge size from 5–50 lbs.

Key Documents

System of Records Notice

Final Rule on Small Cans of Motor Vehicle Refrigerant

Update to the Refrigerant Management Requirements Under the Clean Air Act

Docket for the 2016 rule

Webinar overview of the 2016 rule

Stationary Refrigeration

Open Sidenav Menu

Close Sidenav Menu

Section 608 Technician Certification

expand or collapse the child menu

Certification Requirements

Certification Programs for Section 608 Technicians

Test Topics

Steps for Replacing a Lost Section 608 Technician Card

Technician Trade Groups

Resources

Managing Refrigeration and A/C Equipment

expand or collapse the child menu

Prohibition on Venting Refrigerants

Stationary Refrigeration Service Practice Requirements

Stationary Refrigeration Leak Repair Requirements

Refrigerant Sales Restriction

Recordkeeping and Reporting

Regulatory Updates

Recovering, Recycling, and Reclaiming Refrigerants

expand or collapse the child menu

Refrigerant Recovery and Recycling Equipment Certification

Stationary Refrigeration Refrigerant Reclamation Requirements

Summary of Refrigerant Reclamation Trends

Stationary Refrigeration Safe Disposal Requirements

Stationary Equipment Owners

expand or collapse the child menu

For Businesses

For Homeowners

Appliance Disposal

Section 608 Resources

Contact Us about Stationary Refrigeration and Air Conditioning

Contact Us about Stationary Refrigeration and Air Conditioning  to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.

Last updated on March 23, 2026

Assistance

Spanish

Arabic

Chinese (simplified)

Chinese (traditional)

French

Haitian Creole

Korean

Portuguese

Russian

Tagalog

Vietnamese

Discover.

Accessibility Statement

EPA Administrator

Budget & Performance

Contracting

EPA www Web Snapshot

Grants

No FEAR Act Data

Plain Writing

Privacy and Security Notice

Connect.

Data

Inspector General

Jobs

Newsroom

Regulations.gov

Subscribe

USA.gov

White House

Ask.

Contact EPA

EPA Disclaimers

Hotlines

FOIA Requests

Frequent Questions

Site Feedback

Follow.